A weapon of evil, redeemed in Gideon's hand.
Even after all that befell Amonkhet, Gideon never believed that his trust in Oketra was misplaced.
"Heroism is more than a single act; it is hundreds of small decisions, made every day, in pursuit of a heroic cause."
"I will keep watch."
"One life at a time. That is how the world will be saved."
"Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation." —Vannifar
"The Eternals can recognize faces. They just think I look like a blue minotaur."
"Pardon me if I seem distracted. Part of me is reconnoitering the Tenth District."
"Of course you're being followed!"
"So much wealth. So much splendor. So much temptation to believe the gilded lie." —Kaya
"For the Legion! For Ravnica!"
"Break their formation! Thin their ranks! I'm right behind you!"
Ravnica held its breath as the hero of the resistance—their last hope—flew through the sky, his dark sword ready to strike a god.
Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand.
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will." —Karn
Guild leaders focused their magic on the portal scar. Where the Chamber perished, a parun could be reborn.
The Planar Bridge opened over the Chamber of the Guildpact, reducing the symbol of Ravnica's endurance to rubble.
"Track the source of those thopters," Saheeli told her creation. "And feel free to snack on as many as you want."
It didn't budge when the portal opened, nor when the ancient gods emerged. I came to life only when all ten guilds came together to face a common threat.
"I don't care if it's an all-powerful relic or a street vendor's lucky charm. If it brings you courage, wear it." —Saheeli Rai
"Why would someone have built ... wait, never mind. Send it to the front lines!" —Commander Grozdan
"Hopefully Ravnica will prove harder to break." —Karn
A dictator's infuriating smirk, an affront to everything Ravnica stood for.
The city mourned for Niv-Mizzet's death, but he left behind the components for his rebirth.
"The hero with the magic sword slays the dragon? Not this time." —Nicol Bolas
"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place." —Teferi
"The Tenth is under heavy attack, but it's being handled. I sent Mileva." —Tajic
In times of war, only death flourishes.
As the Eternal's cold fingers tightened around his throat, Domri realized what kind of master he had rushed to serve.
"The primary weapon is nothing more than light. It shows them what they are, and they burn of their own accord." —Aurelia
"If the system is broken, break the system." —Domri Rade
Uthlon the Wise scandalized sphinx society, hooting the answers to riddles as he rampaged through Tin Street. Grangle, on the other hand, sat for hours, deep in thought, largely ignored by fellow goblins.
"Time to find the melting point of lazotep." —Ral Zarek
"No one hero will save this day. Today we must all be heroes." —Gideon Jura
"So everyone gets what they truly deserve, I will keep watch."
Despite their stake in the city's survival, Rakdos cultists are loath to pass up any opportunity to sow chaos.
"The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!" —Nikya of the Old Ways
It feeds on the dark energies that course through the deep world—and on any other creature lured by the leyline's pull.
Death greeted the world with a roar of desert air.
The essence of Ixalan was never far from Huatli's heart.
Kytheon had known war every day of his life. Now he finally knew peace.
"Be careful. You'll have more than Dovin to contend with if you hope to breach New Prahv" —Lavinia, to Chandra Nalaar
"I see you've learned nothing, Chandra. You'd still put a match to something rather than understand it."
"When civilization teeters on the brink, I'll be there to kick it the rest of the way."
Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do"
"They say nothing lasts forever. I say everything lasts forever, just not in the form you may be accustomed to." —Vraska
"Whichever side wins, I'm sure the banquet will be superb."
"Grand city? No. This is nothing but another squalid cage."
"The Eternals had to endure Amonkhet's five trails. Let's see if they can pass the Trial of Ravnica." —Jace Beleren
"I thought this was a civilized place. How are there so many feral beasts?" —Dovin Baan
"If we die, we die. But we cannot let him win." —Ajani Goldmane
The archer's heart broke seeing her compatriots die far below, but she held position until the enemy was in range.
"Let's lure the drakes to the webs over the Samok Stand. Keep the spiders content." —Aurelia
"Yes, nature is stronger. You don't see little buildings sprouting on trees." —Emmara
Elite training, singled-minded devotion, and lazotep coating help only so much for invaders who are fundamentally bite-sized.
"There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure."
Her triumph came not from destroying the unnatural, but from fostering life.
Wherever Yanggu goes, Mowu follows—sometimes at his side, sometimes obscuring him from view entirely.
Looking over two city blocks of destruction, he could only cackle with pride.
He listens to the sounds of battle filtering down from above, waiting for silence, waiting for his time to claim the streets.
"Sometimes Mowu is content to gnaw on a bone. Sometimes he wants the whole skeleton." —Jiang Yanggu
The druid knew only one spell, a charm to encourage rapid plant growth. When airborne Eternals invaded her arboretum, she had to get creative.
Some spells sing a quiet tune. Others roar.
"To care for yourself, cultivate the world. To care for the world, cultivate yourself."
"Thanks to my father, I know how to fight. He also showed me why I must."
For most, war is a calamity. For some, an opportunity. And for the very few, a pleasure.
"I call upon the vigor of the grasses, the hopes of the flowers, and the dreams of the trees."
"We agree that life should flourish. We disagree on the optimal number of limbs."
"Tread upon these flower beds at your own peril." —Emmara
In times of peril, the vision the ancient paruns had for their city comes into focus.
The Eternal armies advanced on Vitu-Ghazi. At Nissa's command, Vitu-Ghazi advanced on them.
"If you don't speak wolf, allow me to translate: 'One step closer and I'll rip out your throat.'" —Arlinn Kord
"We fight to stop a tyrant, but we also fight for the gentle creatures who have no concept of what befalls their world." —Vivien Reid
Common Gruul career aspirations: berserker, shaman, catapault.
"Find out whose that is. I like its energy." —Judith
Freed from their respective labs, the two weirds formed a partnership, feeding on the arcane energies of war.
"You once brought havoc to my home and ruined my mind. I'm here to return the favor, Bolas."
Samut's war was intensely personal. Every hour she faced enemies she once loved as friends and horrors she once revered as gods.
"Seeing so much easy prey makes her crazy. See how she snorts and drools?" —Dhuuz, kronch wrangler
The ancient Planeswalkers Sorin and Nahiri battled across Ravnica, their blows cutting as deep as their grudge.
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."
"We have visitors? Well, it'd be rude not to give them a traditional Keral Keep welcome."
"Fall back! You are no match for this." —Samut
In life, they revered a diverse pantheon of gods. Now they revere only the God-Pharaoh.
The mage looked within and realized there was still one piece of fuel to burn.
Beneath each gleaming mineral shell rots a once-proud warrior of Amonkhet.
Under the veneer of the various guilds, each goblin has the same basic need: to run screaming at the enemy and hit a bunch of stuff.
What he lacks in patience, intelligence, empathy, lucidity, hygiene, ability to follow orders, self-regard, and discernible skills, he makes up for in sheer chaotic violence.
There's no crisis a hellion can't make worse.
"For every inch of land they take from us, we take it back or we burn it. Give them nothing." —Aurelia
Every storm has an eye.
Her triumph came from not achieving her ideal self, but from rejecting the idea of perfection.
"Now that I've dealt with your little toys, I can focus on the real problem: you." —Chandra Nalaar, to Dovin Baan
"You say this Tenth District, not Rubblebelt. But where smash happen, that Rubblebelt. Rubblebelt state of mind." —Urgdar, cyclops philosopher
"This day will end in death, but not the one you hoped for. This day will end in victory, but not the one you expected."
"Why don't we fight for what's right and let bureaucrats argue over the details?"
"Give them everything you've got . . . and some things you don't. —Ral Zarek
"Peril is in the eye of the beholder. At least, if your aim is good." —Jaya Ballard
"Give me a crew like this one and I'd rule any sea I sailed." —Angrath
"You might have pleaded your case with my queen earlier. Now I am here, and it is far too late."
His blessing is a curse.
"I think I cracked a fang."
"No one will ever ride me again, Gideon. Expect no further favors." —Rakdos
"I've always said full war chests win wars, but I didn't mean by bashing enemy skulls with them." —Teysa
"I know they're unstoppable fighters created to harvest souls—it's just they're so rude about it." —Kaya
With the harvest of Domri's spark, the Elderspell began to fuel Bolas's ascension to godhood.
"I see you're out of the wall." —Nahiri
"It's faster than we are. Draw its attention while the Ledev take aim!" —Shauntal, Boros legionnaire
The moment Liliana defied Nicol Bolas, her contract was broken, and her life was forfeit. But she was free to choose her fate, and she decided it was worth the price.
Trapped on Ravnica with no affection for either side, Ob Nixilis sought gratification in random acts of torment.
Her triumph came not from escaping her death, but in claiming her independence.
Despite their many forms, the Eternals worked in chilling harmony, unburdened by instinct or emotion.
"I know I should be more concerned. But a big, blue zombie-potamus from beyond the stars? This is what they're invading us with?" —Mileva, Boros legionnaire
The Eternals found some sparks to be quite slippery.
Amonkhet's dead flowed into a new world in service to their God-Pharaoh.
When you rule by fear, your greatest weakness is one who's no longer afraid.
"They are called Eternals. They will never stop." —Jace Beleren
The path to power is often paved with atrocities.
Gideon eyed the Dimir emissary warily. "Could your agents slip inside Bolas's citadel?" The figure met his gaze with icy resolve. "We already have."
The feline Eternal felt Liliana's command, looked at her disdainfully, flicked its paw, and scampered away across the rooftops.
Shadows coiled around the witness's mind. Then the moment vanished, leaving only the sting of its loss.
Liliana seized the reins of Bolas's vast army, gritting her teeth behind the Chain Veil.
"War or no war, your donations are due, as always."
"Today we throw off the yoke of death. Either this is an affirmation of the eternal cyclical nature of life, or it's just hilarious—depends on which of us you ask."
"I wish I could train a pack of them for hunting in the undercity. But I'd never dare turn my back, and I hate to think what I'd have to feed them." —Zhosmir, urban huntmaster
"I never liked you. Now get up—we have a fight to finish."
"It's strangely satisfying seeing an undead killing machine from another world standing befuddled in front of a wall of text." —Lavinia
At least this was better than that week at the Juri Revue.
The arrival of the Planar Bridge caused eddies in the aether, creating some entirely new species while transforming others.
"The safest place for you is not now."
Tamiyo wished only to observe the war, but she soon realized neutrality was not an option.
"What they don't know will definitely hurt them." —Lazav
They worked well as a team, but they knew it couldn't last forever.
Courier owls joined the fray, attacking the Dreadhorde with a viciousness usually reserved for mail thieves.
"Now, little fighter, show me you deserved this second chance."
They approach in formation, every movement efficient and sure. They halt, listen, and then press on in silent unison.
Jace surmised that they were walking into Bolas's trap. He felt no joy in being right.
"In the disarray of battle, an enemy's attack may be your most convenient weapon." —Narset
"I recognize that headdress. This one was feared even by her fellow initiates." —Samut
"When your enemy flees, send the sea to pursue them." —Kiora
"Hop away now, little Eternal. Go eat some flies." —Kasmina
His triumph was not in outsmarting Bolas's plan, but in understanding why ultimate power is self-defeating.
"Inform our allies in the Tenth and throw the circuit. It's about to get weird."
Ugin saw the gem that connected Bolas to his Meditation Realm as the key to his brother's downfall.
An Izzet experiment begins with a "what if," gets approved with a "why not," and concludes with a "eureka!"
"All I ask is complete obedience." —Nicol Bolas
Niv Mizzet had perfected a plan, but he had no control over the mortal minds who had to agree to implement it.
"Even gods shall kneel." —Nicol Bolas
"They make it clear we are nothing to them." —Lavinia
"Together we can unlock secrets no one has even dreamed of. I might even let you remember some of them."
"I've never seen the firemane angels so anxious." —Tajic
"There is no future save the one my master wills."
"Fear writhes and whispers in the shadows of your mind. It is the enemy you always knew would come." —Ashiok
Soaring over Vitu-Ghazi, New Prahv, and Orzhova, the Conclave's trained falcons provided critical intelligence.
"Precise, clean cuts. No one saw anything. Again. Tag the report with my code and file it." —Lavinia
"Would you give your life to save the world?" Gideon murmured. The pegasus snorted and spread wide its mighty wings.
Bolas cared little when his statue fell, thinking it a useful distraction, underestimating the surge of resolve it gave his opponents.
"Some bend the law. I tie it into knots.
Teyo gifted shields to as many allies as possible, knowing he could not always be there to protect them himself.
At Feather's command, squadrons of battle angels swarmed out of the Parhelion II, unsheathing blades made of molten dawn.
Not even a threat to the entire Multiverse could persuade them to put aside their feud.
Grief is a crucible where resolve is tempered.
The heart of Ravnica disappeared before anyone could strike a blow in its defense.
Even the clouds became a field of battle. Known as the Sky Theater, it saw the Eternals clash with squadrons of angels.
After millenia to craft victory, Bolas had eternity to contemplate defeat.
"I don't understand. He's normally so well behaved!"
"If I am to die in service, there is no more worthy fight than this."
Their ranks are thin, their formation is improvised, their weapons are borrowed, and you'd best get out of their way.
His voice is both war horn and rallying cry, a trumpeting call that stirs even the faintest heart.
"See that no one enters or leaves New Prahv today. And notify me at once of any Planeswalker activity." —Dovin Baan
"We need to block the exits from the plaza! What's big, heavy, and available?" —Gideon Jura
"If you can't save yourself, you fight to give someone else a chance." —Ajani Goldmane
His triumph came not from victory over his enemies, but from the salvation of those who survived.
To Liliana's surprise, the cost of betraying Bolas did not fall on her.
The sky boiled over the citadel, dire and dark. then the angels brought the dawn.
"A company of infantry is trapped behind the lines. We need to strike hard and fast to free them, or the casualties will be horrific. Send the griffins." —Tajic
Ravnica's defenders watched in horror as Oketra's shot pierced the body of the pegasus. Gideon tumbled through the air, Blackblade in hand.
"My family was saved thanks to a single Boros soldier. It's why I joined the Legion. I will be the protector now."
"There's something peculiar about the cats today." —Janoc, Tin Street tinker
"Where did she come from? More importantly, are there more like her?" —Gideon Jura
"We agree that order benefits everyone, but not until you enforce it."
"Welcome to the Legion. You saved a district—now let's go save the world."
Planeswalkers conjured replicas of old allies, reminders of the homeworlds that would fall next if Bolas prevailed.
The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.
Hanna was astounded. Mirri read every leaf and wisp of breeze like a book of ancient lore.
Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand.
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will." —Karn
"I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will." —Karn
"To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place." —Teferi
In times of war, only death flourishes.
As the Eternal's cold fingers tightened around his throat, Domri realized what kind of master he had rushed to serve.
"The primary weapon is nothing more than light. It shows them what they are, and they burn of their own accord." —Aurelia
Uthlon the Wise scandalized sphinx society, hooting the answers to riddles as he rampaged through Tin Street. Grangle, on the other hand, sat for hours, deep in thought, largely ignored by fellow goblins.
"So everyone gets what they truly deserve, I will keep watch."
"The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!" —Nikya of the Old Ways
"I see you've learned nothing, Chandra. You'd still put a match to something rather than understand it."
"There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure."
Some spells sing a quiet tune. Others roar.
The Eternal armies advanced on Vitu-Ghazi. At Nissa's command, Vitu-Ghazi advanced on them.
"After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time."
When you rule by fear, your greatest weakness is one who's no longer afraid.
The path to power is often paved with atrocities.
Liliana seized the reins of Bolas's vast army, gritting her teeth behind the Chain Veil.
"In the disarray of battle, an enemy's attack may be your most convenient weapon." —Narset
Ugin saw the gem that connected Bolas to his Meditation Realm as the key to his brother's downfall.
"Even gods shall kneel." —Nicol Bolas
"There is no future save the one my master wills."
"Some bend the law. I tie it into knots.
Not even a threat to the entire Multiverse could persuade them to put aside their feud.
The heart of Ravnica disappeared before anyone could strike a blow in its defense.
"If you can't save yourself, you fight to give someone else a chance." —Ajani Goldmane
The sky boiled over the citadel, dire and dark. then the angels brought the dawn.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."
"It is technically an ooze, but its lifespan measures only seconds. In that short time, its appetite for magic is extraordinary." —Simic research notes
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design." —Momir Vig
"This creature has hyperevolved chameleonic abilities. It no longer mimics its surroundings, instead forcing them to take on its form." —Simic research notes
The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea.
"Of course it will grow beyond control—it was designed to choose its own evolution." —Momir Vig
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
It grows to hate you.
"We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome." —Speaker Trifon
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Gurley was the first to domesticate one, though his widow didn't take much solace in that accomplishment.
"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."
They inflict pain to forget their own and break foes to feel whole.
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example." —Trigori, Azorius senator
The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance.
"This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust." —Nikya of the Old Ways
"All the coins in Ravnica can't save his soul now." —Narbulg Nine Fingers
"Not Gruul? Then die!" —Borborygmos
"We respect all lifeforms, but this one we respect from a distance." —Mandor, Selesnya ranger
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?" —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
Gruul shamans are bent on punishing the civilized. Any act more complex than rubbing sticks together or eating with utensils is met with the stinging burn of their magic.
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.
"It's easy to see why those Gruul dirtbags follow him—the only orders he gives are 'Crush them!' and 'We eat!'" —Teysa Karlov
Some use magic to spy through walls. Others use it to crush them.
"The Gruul embrace all things poisonous and living in the cracks of society." —Teysa Karlov
"Meat *and* eggs. We eat!" —Borborygmos
Long ago, birds of paradise littered the skies. Thanks to the city's sprawl, most now exist as pets of society's elite.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
The Rakdos use it for everything you can think of and plenty more than that.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.
Most auramancers would have let the spikes hover just above the skin. Having the spikes rip through the skin from beneath was a touch added by Rakdos himself.
When Lord Rakdos stirred from his slumber, everyone else's nightmare began.
"If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys."
Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.
Sacrificial rites take place before an audience of cheering cultists, each begging to be the next on stage.
Few puppets are so willing.
In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show.
Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!" —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself.
The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes.
"I like a little entertainment with my dinner." —Rakdos
As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead.
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void." —Razia
"Let him be an example to others who would default on their debts to us." —"The Cozen," Orzhov assassin
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies." —Savra
Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.
Rakdos cultists hanged her for sport in the township square. Her ghost now stands vigil at what has become known as the Tree of Weeping.
"Spend your life betraying me if you wish. I'll simply take it up with your ghost."
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law." —Isperia
"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."
"Try not to look guilty. Or delicious." —Thorpe, street urchin
"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor." —Barvisa, courtroom scribe
"I never thought I'd be so glad to see two tons of beak and claws bearing down on me at the speed of an arrow." —Mirela, Azorius hussar
As whispers and rumors increased, so did the demand for fail-safe barriers.
"Life is fleeting, and so is death. Only the oath is eternal."
"Your potential to commit a crime warrants further investigation."
"As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable." —Augustin IV
"I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica."
While Kaya is guildmaster, Teysa waits patiently at the center of the Orzhov web of power.
"Entertain me."
"The hooves of the Raze-Bore will trample the weak—and their city—to dust!"
"Your debt is erased." —Hilgur, Orzhov euthanist
"I told Jace that Ravnica would fall apart if he didn't take his responsibilities seriously. I didn't want to be right."
Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it.
At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.
Havoc is a small price to pay for data.
She displays her scars with pride.
Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which sees to revitalize the cycles of nature.
"Time to let the dead be dead." —Kaya, to Teysa
"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger." —Tajic
"In your misguided attempt to subvert the law, you have eloquently explained why the law must exist."
"Rage! Rage until the whole world burns!"
Simic's strength comes from its diversity.
"Smash this city to pieces." —Domri Rade
"Places, everyone!" —Judith
"Hello, kindling."
The Orzhov are not the only religious tradition on Ravnica, nor the oldest.
"Down here, things don't stay dead." —Lavinia
"No worthwhile reward is easily gained." —Nicol Bolas
In preparation for the conflict all foresaw, the Golgari called upon an army that had slept for millennia beneath the city.
"I do not understand the future I see: the guilds subverted, the world at war, armies bent to a cruel conqueror's will."
"To control the present we must master the future."
"I am my life's work."
When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive.
It drains vitality from those it touches.
"Good girl."
"Your precious laws can't save you now!"
It was made for battle, but that doesn't mean it's unsophisticated.
"We're finished here."
"Hold it! I need to see your papers."
"What we begin, the End-Raze will finish. Then we will dance in Ravnica's rubble." —Nikya of the Old Ways
"When the Prime Speaker goes too far, I will be here in the safety of the deeps to correct her." —Zegana
"Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation." —Vannifar
"Slip in the back if you don't want to be recognized. Don't worry—we'll make sure you're never found." —Judith
"My servants take pains for your pleasure, and take pleasure in your pain!" —Rakdos
"If you think the cathedral is impressive, you should see what's down below." —Teysa
"So much wealth. So much splendor. So much temptation to believe the gilded lie." —Kaya
The ever-watchful center of a growing web of eyes.
"Old turf. Powerful turf. Much good blood spilled here." —Ruric Thar
"Beyond this gate there are no citizens, only predators and prey." —Domri Rade
Sin is debt, and absolution is paid in tithes of gold and blood.
The Chamber of the Guildpact has fallen silent, its bright promise broken.
"One beginning, many paths." —Vannifar
Life is a show, and death its final performance.
"If you want to know what's really going on in any building, you don't walk in the front door. You stake out the back." —Lavinia
"If the populace fears our authority, then I'd say we have an appropriately sensible populace." —Dovin Baan
"Reading it has given me a glimpse of what makes this deeply flawed city so very magnificent." —Dovin Baan
"Like our guild itself, this locket can stand for many things. You must discern what it means for you." —Vannifar
Shhh . . .
Feel it steel. Feed it gold. Feed it bone. In the belly of the furnace, the flames know no difference.
"This trinket will gain you admittance to some painfully exclusive gatherings." —Exava, blood witch
"It looks expensive, doesn't it? You have no idea..." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Hey, wait! That's my boot!" —Darijo, Ivy Street ruffian
"In life, it was a cunning survivor, fearless and quick. May its power pass to you as you wear its skull." —Gna, Gruul shaman
"Counterbalanced forces sustain this city. No faction above others. A beautiful idea." —Emmara
"Mandatory lockets enable the tracking of all Senate personnel for improved security and efficiency." —Dovin Baan
Orzhov vampires look for allies in unlikely places in case their new guildmaster turns on them. The fate of the Obzedat is proof of Kaya's power and her hatred of the living dead.
"The Senate griffins overhead used to make people think of order and safety. Not anymore." —Lavinia
"Tear down the city, lie by lie. Then throw it back at the liars, stone by stone." —Domri Rade
"This footlight's broken. Get me a stagehand!" —Judith
Among the Zhur-Taa Clan, goblins are the first to enter battlefury. When the battle is over, the survivors are still frothing at the mouth, looking for someone to hit.
While Kaya is guildmaster, Teysa waits patiently at the center of the Orzhov web of power.
"You take our wilds, we take your city."
"Do not think me blind to your true mission...or your true master, Grand Arbiter."
Azorius sphinxes are loyal to the precepts of the law, not to any particular guildmaster—even one of their own kind.
A Gruul berserker is never unarmed.
The sly, stealthy warriors of the Slizt Clan survive by hiding in high ground and ambushing their enemies. Other Gruul call them skulkers and cowards, but only from a safe distance.
Some view Domri's unlikely ascent as a sign of Ilharg the Raze-Boar's imminent return.
"Entertain me."
"That one has a bright future—perfect instincts for the rhythm of mayhem." —Judith
Ever wonder why you never see an old Rakdos Cultist?
"Pay in gold. Pay in blood. Pay with the servitude of your spirit kin. But pay you must."
"The hooves of the Raze-Boar will trample the weak—and their city—to dust!"
"Your debt is erased." —Hilgur, Orzhov euthanist
The Rakdos put the "fun" in "funeral."
"I told Jace that Ravnica would fall apart if he didn't take his responsibilities seriously. I didn't want to be right."
Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it.
At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood.
The rights of ghosts are strictly protected under Orzhov bylaws, and those who enforce them can count on the ghosts' assistance.
Havoc is a small price to pay for data.
"They all want to see me fall."
"As I contemplate what is, I dive ever deeper into the depths of possibility. Then I set an experiment in motion and watch the truth rise to the surface."
She displays her scars with pride.
Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature.
"Debt due! Debt due!" The thrull's screeching makes children flinch and debtors quail. "Debt due!"
"Vraska sees the grandeur in death but misses the hilarity." —Judith
"I might have overfed him." —Gulistan, Simic biomancer
"Your arrival was expected...and unwelcome."
"Let's find out what kind of audience you are. Festive? Fearless?"
There's nothing quite like the feeling of paying off a large debt.
"Time to let the dead be dead." —Kaya, to Teysa
Dovin ticked the Planeswalkers off on his fingers: himself, Domri, Kaya, Ral, Vraska . . . and Bolas made an even six.
Jaharg discovered that the shapes and symmetries so pleasing to the sculptor's eye also yielded a well-balanced bludgeon.
"It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger." —Tajic
You can hear their tolling only when your debt is due.
"These new thopters are all well and good, but four eyes are better than none."
Thanks to the magic of his Writ of Passage, alms beasts lumbered aside, anarchs bowed their heads, and even Rakdos acrobats rolled their spikewheels out of his way.
"The absence of binocular vision imposes certain challenges for a flying creature, which are overcome via echolocation." —Simic research notes
"In your misguided attempt to subvert the law, you have eloquently explained why the law must exist."
"The best construction makes the most satisfying destruction." —Domri Rade
"Walls crack. Buildings fall. Always the wilds return." —Domri Rade
His favorite food is kraul.
"We've been practicing for this all our lives. This is the final test!" —Korun Nar, Rubblebelt hunter
Whoever wins, the neighborhood loses.
"The presence of the strong will make you stronger." —Yeva, Nature's Herald
The mournful lowing of brushstriders warns of changing weather and ill winds.
"What you build, we will destroy . . . and bury you in the rubble!"
"If the Fin Clade cannot produce a reliable venomous krasis, mobile in both air and water, then the Guardian Project will absorb its resources." —Vannifar
"Stay close! It's just a little farther."
"Within each of us, the potential for great power waits to be released." —Zija, Simic mutationist
"I hold the seed of our new beginning."
"My bowstring hums in tune with the song of the Worldsoul." —Alcarus, Selesnya sagittar
The roots run deep under stone and street, with strength that needs but a whisper to awaken.
"When you get right down to it, the difference between death and life is just a membrane-enclosed environment maintained by a metabolic process." —Gulistan, Simic biomancer
Tumult is its natural habitat.
"Rage! Rage until the whole world burns!"
"If you don't have a destination in mind, the route is all that matters." —Tamina, district guide
"The good news is that the migrating drakes are no longer a problem." —Bell Migellic, Azorius hussar
Simic's strength comes from its diversity.
"When the sky screams, when the ground groans, the End-Raze will soon begin." —Nikya of the Old Ways
So-called "battering rams" pale in comparison to the real thing.
"There's no time to calm it down! Run!"
"Smash this city to pieces." —Domri Rade
"To survive exceptional times we must adapt by exceptional means." —Vannifar
"Imagine a gigantic pine cone that's extremely territorial and always in a foul mood." —Zhosmir, urban huntmaster
"That giant didn't even see me, let alone catch me! And I was close enough to smell him! Of course, that's not saying much."
"My shout is thunder and my fist is lightning!"
"Every street's a stage, and every screaming bystander's an audience."
"Don't waste time aiming, you lazy gob-slug! Fire!" —Krenko, mob boss
"Come in, yes? Is warm!"
Going to a Rakdos show is dangerous. Trying to leave early can be fatal.
"Have you seen your face? Trust me, this will be an improvement."
The Rubblebelt grows restless.
Joining a guild, even the Gruul, would mean giving up some of his independence. He'd rather smash what he wants to smash.
Gruul oracles see omens in all forms of destruction: the entrails of maaka's prey, the flight of vultures over a battlefield, the scattering of toppled stone.
"Places, everyone!" —Judith
"Hello, kindling."
"No peace accord will save Ravnica. You don't build on rot. You burn it down and start again." —Domri Rade
Two's a party. Three's a felony.
"Today the Rubblebelt is a bit larger. That's a good day's work."
When the Izzet's spirit of invention extends to the city's infrastructure, the results are sometimes explosive.
"Fire will cure a multitude of ills."
"Lost are the lush meadows and verdant forests, where maaka prowled and lammasu soared. Lost are the wilds, where our hearts were free." —Daiva, Gruul storyteller
"Basically, we turn a bunch of little lightnings into one big lightning."
"Leave no stone unturned." —Ruric Thar
"Keep coming. I have knives enough for everyone."
"Little goblin. Big noise." —Ruric Thar
Let the Dimir worry about witnesses. For the Rakdos, screams count as applause.
The ostentatious splendor of the Orzhov church was just asking to be smashed.
"From a great bonfire at the dawn of time, the first Gruul kindled their rage. The same flame burns in you." —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
Seen through Rakdos eyes, a cruel betrayal is a hilarious stunt.
In theory, the Guildpact keeps guild feuds form spiraling out of control. Personal feuds, however, are not covered.
The undercity is always hungry.
"We grow strong by feasting on failure." —Izoni
"Your life is a blinding light, your breath a gale, your pulse a deafening drum. Be still. Be still." —Dahlya Trul, "Irbitov Lament"
Its mandibles can leave a rider in the clouds astride a headless griffin.
"The louder their performance, the quieter we become in comparison. They are the perfect distractions, for only fools ignore the Rakdos." —Lazav
The Orzhov are not the only religious tradition on Ravnica, nor the oldest.
For some goods, the best couriers are the dead.
Its stench corrodes steel. Its miasma sickens angels. Its finality ends hope.
"Looks like you need protection."
"You'll pay what you owe, with your money or your life."
"Behold the groodion! Ichor-slurper, oozing fiend. Foulest wonder underground. Grandest vermin of them all!" —Zalin the Gutter Bard
"The suffering of others is not my concern."
"Down here, things don't stay dead." —Lavinia
"A debtor's soul has little value, except as a warning to others who might consider defaulting on their loans." —Ubea, Orzhov ministrant
"No worthwhile reward is easily gained." —Nicol Bolas
Never boring.
By design, the sarcophagus muffles the debtors' moans but does not silence them.
You're only as dead as you feel.
If your ears bleed, it's a party. If your eyes bleed, it's a Rakdos party.
First your whole life flashes before your eyes. Then you have considerable time to reflect on every regret as you plummet.
"Make way! It's time for the final act!"
"I am sewer-king!" said Rat. "I am quick and cunning and I know every tunnel." "No, I am king!" said Zombie. "I am cold and deadly and no rot can harm me." Then Croc came and ate them both.
No scrap of nutrition goes to waste in the undercity.
Blood seeks blood, and nothing shall hold back its hunger.
"The pain of searing iron and razor edges pales beside the pleasure of performance." —Judith
"Your spirits can rest in peace, for your debts are paid."
In preparation for the conflict all foresaw, the Golgari called upon an army that had slept for millennia beneath the city.
Drakes become especially voracious as they prepare for their autumn migration, hunting the city's thoroughfares from dawn to dusk.
Those who intrude upon the Dimir seldom remember that they have done so.
"Here, there is only truth." —Barvisa, Azorius emissary
"I can think of no greater punishment than answering your question in full." —Lazav
"Oops!" —Grupgrup, sluiceway technician
"I do not understand the future I see: the guilds subverted, the world at war, armies bent to a cruel conqueror's will."
"Relax. It's quite harmless. And it will dissolve completely in a month or two." —Navona, Simic field tester
"Life has no mistakes, only experiments." —Yolov, Simic bioengineer
"A better Ravnica begins with a better Simic." —Vannifar
"There's something peculiar about the rain today." —Janoc, Tin Street tinker
"This Dovin Baan came from nowhere. Watch him. Read his letters. He is more than he appears." —Lazav
The streets of Ravnica are full of former guild members now using their institutional skills for personal gain.
"When properly invoked, the plasma globule encloses the offensive spell with a satisfying slurp.
"Citizen! Your crime has been recorded. Cease movement and await arrest, or further penalties will be immediately imposed."
"To control the present we must master the future."
Those who cross the Dimir find enemies everywhere they turn.
Searching the city for Fblthp felt like sifting the rain for a single drop of blood.
"I've been through every guild gate in this city, and no one sees me come or go."
Faeries are easily offended and quick to exact a quirky revenge.
"They've got eyes inside my head!"
"It's not enough to defeat our foes. We must learn from them, too." —Vannifar
Few Ravnicans are aware of the vast reefs in their world's hidden ocean. Far beneath the great sinkholes, where the light is blue and dim, merfolk tend the coral labyrinths that feed the benthic ecosystem.
"The best way to keep a secret is to forget it." —Lazav
If you can see your breath, it's too late to run.
"I am my life's work."
Law is the voice of reason.
Loitering is not only illegal but unwise, since those who stay too long in one place are apt to be stepped on.
A pet that can hunt both flesh and spirit is precious in a place where smiling assassins keep company with ghostly shadows.
"I keep reminding myself we do this because others can't, because we love this city. If we don't save it, no one will."
"Many wings haunt the skies these days. Few of them bear good tidings." —Lavinia
Any challenge to Azorius authority is met with swift and potent retribution.
She breathes fair winds to tired griffins and lifts songbirds beyond the reach of stalking cats.
"I await your donation." —Dasha, Orzhov priest
"If you can't control your mount, I will control it for you." —Mirela, Azorius hussar
A friend in good times, a guardian in bad times, and a savior when all else fails.
The guildmasters loom large in the political sphere, but in the end, the rulers of Ravnica are its people.
A hunter in the city requires the utmost cunning to survive. It must pounce only if the kill is certain, and leave the remains where no one will see.
When the price of your sins comes due, the Church of Deals is there to collect.
The helmet reveals no eyes to witness your penance, no mouth to offer absolution.
With the new guildmaster's innovations, arresters can arrive on the scene moments before a crime is committed.
In times of unrest, the crowd is eager for the comfort of strong convictions.
When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive.
"You two, cover the alley! You, with me! Eyes on windows, balconies, and rooftops. Who knows what a fish-octopus-crab can do!"
"You will respect the dead."
"Lies cannot long withstand the harsh light of day." —Lavinia
"What makes a frog lizard any worse than a bird horse? Prejudice against the Simic, that's what! It's unfair!" —Thados Arquef, Guardian Project biomancer
"These are your streets. Defend them! This is your neighborhood. Honor it! This is your city. Save it!"
"In you go, big guy. Watch your head."
Law is the light of civilization.
A ray of hope breaks through the shroud of rain.
"If we cannot have peace, we will have justice." —Aurelia
"Don't fret, infants. It wouldn't have worked anyway."
"Vow your allegiance to true power."
"Little insects, I have created entire worlds and extinguished twice as many."
"The dunes smell spilled blood."
"The gates open to my new era."
"Your companions were lucky to have died first."
"Groveling already? I'm just starting to enjoy myself."
"Cry out for your comrades so that they may join you in misery."
"To think you've spent years honing your body only to die like this."
"My generosity blesses you all, even the undeserving."
"Let me unburden you of these fatuous hopes."
"Pain is a delusion of the weak. I'll demonstrate."
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse." —Lord Windgrace
Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"Yawgmoth is dead, and his citadels lie empty. But there will always be some who seek power at any price." —Karn
Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.
A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead. —Vec tomb inscription
A capable mage can tune its focus, refracting mana through each disk in turn to cast any spell they desire.
It ignores such insignificant forces as time, entropy, and death.
"Unskin these impure bodies, Great Yawgmoth, that flesh may welcome your blessings." —*Phyrexian Scriptures*
One wizard's trash is another wizard's roving gang of abominations.
The Krark Clan enjoys pulling them apart just to watch them reassemble one another.
"I know one night it won't come back. Then I'll know it's truly done its job." —Braenna, cobblesmith
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
"Did you expect me to dodge? How quaint." —Olka, mistmeadow witch
Ogle the bogle, or goggle the boggle? Doesn't matter. You weren't going to catch it anyway.
Not even death will keep her from her mission.
"If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys."
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold." —Grensch, merrow cutthroat
Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another.
"Burn, suffer, and trouble me no more."
If at first you don't succeed, hit them again.
Once the hideous disease takes hold, it spreads through both bark and mind.
The foyer is littered with the coins it demands but can no longer hold.
"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them." —Aurelia
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
Great devotion yields great reward.
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh.
"I'm sure we can come to an arrangement."
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity." —Jarad
So great are his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
Each of the twenty-three winds of Esper is named and chronicled, and every possible interaction with the flow of magic is exhaustively detailed.
Ral Zarek's brainstorms bring actual thunder and lightning.
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void." —Razia, Boros archangel
It teaches *you* to play dead.
Otto the Hunter was filled with many grand ambitions. The snake was filled only with Otto.
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
Visiting a shrine at the start of a journey makes the traveler more likely to finish it.
What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
As soon as she faces a monster, she begins composing its epitaph.
To prepare for the Trial of Strength, nagas shed their old skin—and with it their scars, their doubts, and their fears.
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
Its ferocity cannot be contained in one lifetime.
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
"We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait.
"You cannot achieve greatness if its seed has not already been planted in your heart."
"While the church thinks in terms of legacies, others think in terms of eternities."
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
She wears the talismans of every creature she can evoke.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."
"Do not mistake your lofty vantage point for safety." —Shaper Tuvasa
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —*Scroll of Beginnings*
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
"From in here, everything looks like dinner."
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
It's not any fun until someone loses an eye.
"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."
"If Yawgmoth meant Squee's immortality as a curse, no one ever told Squee." —Karn
An avatar he sculpts of anger and flame.
"In a war for survival, Dominaria itself became a weapon. The malice is gone, but the danger remains." —Jhoira
When demons open a path to your front door, it's time to move.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
Goblins in the first wave of a fire raid always bemoan the aim of everyone else.
Shiny polished silver can ward off many creatures, but it attracts others.
"Few can coax the creatures within the magma to be cooled and take form." —Koth of the Hammer
"The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw." —Jaji, magmaw worshipper
"I have seen it. Seen the end, seen the beginning, the beginning of the end. Not death, no, no. Transcendence!"
It's not the most subtle incantation, but it gets the point across.
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
It's pretty cute—from a distance.
Infinite potential given finite form.
"STUFF AND SUNDRIES AND MUNITIONS!" —Breeches, gunner of the *Belligerent*
Nothing impresses goblins more than something that's bound to kill them.
"When a phoenix nests in a volcano, we rejoice, for it means a hundred years of war." —Golmak, Keldon warlord
"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments.
If it comes for you, die boldly or die swiftly—for die you will.
The Iroan Games award no medals. Athletes vie for a visit from Iroas, god of victory.
"Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape." —Koth of the Hammer
An Akroan soldier's worth is measured by the number of swords raised by his battle cry.
Liliana viewed the attention of the angels as a testament to her power. Even so, they were an annoyance.
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.
"Children, where are your parents?" —Reig, wandering monk, last words
Not wind, but the breath of the dead.
It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss.
His mind was lost long before his flesh.
"You'd better be worth it." —Liliana Vess
Displays of Voldaren bloodlust are not restricted to glamorous banquets and lavish parties.
For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it." —Sorin Markov
Takedowns in Valor's Reach are never meant to be lethal, but that doesn't mean they won't be incredibly painful.
If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective?
So long as death follows life, the supply lines of the Sultai will never be cut.
It once served a cathar roadwatcher, patrolling the crossways between villages. Its hooves still carry it along the same path.
"Once in the box, we're all the same."
"Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen." —Adaran, Tangle hunter
"I'll return once you've ripened." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
Beware the generosity of demons.
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
"Death not for survival but for vanity and pleasure? This is the decadence I sought to curb." —Sorin Markov
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
A mage willing to dedicate his life to his craft.
Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest.
The Flowing Staff technique does not differentiate between offense and defense.
"The past is the foundation for all that exists in the present. We merely reconstruct what our ancestors have already discovered." —Sachimir, Sage of Memories
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
"Either I know just the spell I need, or I'm about to."
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
A skullkeeper is the first to arrive after the palace archers strike down intruders, probing their brains for choice bits of knowledge.
"All things return to their beginnings. The waters that spill across the Kamitaki Falls flow to sea, only to be returned to her as the rain that joins the mighty river." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
"Oglor create life, Oglor take it away. Oglor god! … until Master return."
"The best skaabs are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts." —Stitcher Geralf
"Gambling with mages never is." —Remin, venerable monk
"I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination."
"Concentration is key. Without it, a mage conjures nothing but a splitting headache." —Zur the Enchanter
"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
The currents of the Marang wash away both tracks and blood.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
"Some trade in goods, some in secrets. My soul has walked the futures, and I offer the rare coin of possibility."
His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed.
"There's nothing to worry about."
It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time.
Among wizards, poor timing is the most consistent mistake.
The view from above is an inspiration to the newly winged.
He's mastered the art of sleight of land.
"Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting."
On every plane in the Multiverse, there is magic, and someone is using it to fly.
"A ruler wears a crown while the rest of us wear hats, but which would you rather have when it's raining?" —Barrin, *Principia*
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
Trust is the only bridle a pegasus will accept.
"Learn from your enemies, but do not tolerate them."
The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes.
"Death is tyranny. Like all tyranny, it must be opposed."
The most beautiful souls shine even in death.
Pray her spear reaches you first. Her griffin is less kind.
The sigil represents an honor that endures beyond death.
The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again.
"You have not died until I consent."
Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more. —War blessing of Serra
A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it.
"If you must go out at night, bring a mob." —Master of the Elgaud Cathars
His soldiers etch his words on the insides of their shields, their inspiration always in sight during battle.
"I am the rock of the polis. Death only strengthens me."
"Only in our vulnerability is there true power, and that power is life itself."
Every action has a foreseen purpose.
A thousand years removed from her home, her news of war had lost its context, but not its relevance.
"My left has felled a cyclops. My right has slain a giant. I bring both to every fight."
The blessings of Heliod are apparent for all to see.
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."
"Let the deception of the gods yield to the pure light of day." —Brimaz, king of Oreskos
"There is no greater coward than one who believes in nothing."
Some protection requires a bit of finesse.
Angels watch over mortals wit heavy hearts, knowing what fate awaits them in the end.
"The will of all, by my hand done."
"Ulamog is dead, and his brood is dying. Some of them just don't know it yet." —Nirthu, lone missionary
The barest taste of Eldrazi power shatters both realms and identities.
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
"Crackle" and "pop" are the most wondrous sounds.
Its wings are a heavenly inferno that sets the world ablaze.
"As my hands touched it, I realized that I had not found it@-it had been leading me here."
Fire leads to more fire.
"Prepare for battle!"\r\n@-Jiang Yanggu
"Mowu was wary that day, as though he sensed the danger ahead." —Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
"For reasons unknown to me, herds in the Arrow Bamboo Forest have become more and more agitated."\r\n@-Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
If you can see it clearly, you're already on fire.
The welcoming appearance of the Arrow Bamboo Forest masks its deathly hostility.
Known for their glowing horn and stone-rattling roar, zheng are the fiercest predators in the forest. Few survived before Jiang Yanggu came.
"A pangolin's power grows with its speed. Strike when you have the chance!"\r\n@-Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
The pale deer are believed to have lived a thousand years, the pure white five hundred more. Those who seek them would gladly wander the wilds forever for the merest glimpse of these sacred beings.
"Interesting . . . This mortal being seems to have been blessed with Qilin's essence."\r\n@-Mu Yanling's journal
"From the swallows, I learned how to ride the winds to anywhere, and from my tears, I mastered how to harness the water."
Mystery lies beneath the haunting mists. Never stay where obscurity deepens.
A heaven-sent vision is like a lantern to guide the way.
"The Ancestor Dragon appeared atop the clouds, amid shattering mountains and sundering earth."\r\n@-Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
It is said that Yinglong gave birth to the qilin and the phoenix, and after them, all the hairy and winged beings in the world. Thus it is known as the Ancestor Dragon.
It strides through the universe as though stepping on the stars, crossing freely between the celestial and earthly worlds.
The spirits of all the rivers and oceans came together as an unstoppable force, unleashing their fury as lightning and thunder.
The most nimble of creatures, it chases the most sacred luminence.
Deep in the Northern Mountains, the yaks linger silently, channeling the powers of the earth.
It has waited a millennium just for you, and for a millennium will it watch over your descendants.
The rainbow seen above the Great Lake of Cloud Dream just after the rain is nothing but the vivid-colored flying fishes' ritual dance.
It stops flying only as its life comes to an end.
A precious shell without, a delicious taste within.
These nimble sparrows, not often seen, delight in tricking the pangolins that wander the forest.
Not all enormous beasts are quick to anger.
Clouds and mists cover the lake as though it were a dreamland. When the wind rises, the mists disperse, opening great vistas of rippling reeds.
Near the Western Seas lies Mount Zhaoyao@-a forest of stones that reaches the clouds, a bountiful land of wondrous treasures and strange animals.
Two bodies, twice the malice.
This strange beast has the hide of a leopard, the howl of a dog, and the horns of an ox.
A pangolin's scales are resistant to all sorts of damage and weaponry. Desire for them threatens to drive the pangolin to extinction.
Not even the tallest tree stands a chance against the underside of a dinosaur's foot.
Their fires burn quietly, allowing the phoenixes to glide silently through the canyon.
"Those who stood in my path now lay behind me."
It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.
"No single arrow can pierce an entire flock."
Enchanters add layer upon layer of complexity to the world around them.
"Doves and pigeons are too subtle. When I send a message, I want it to have some teeth."\r\n@-Aeschel, royal diplomat
Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination.
She talks using riddles her disciples alone can unravel.
Death eventually wiggles toward us all.
Zombies work best when they're fed appropriately, so it's prudent to let them eat on the job.
"And who will stop me? You?"
Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor.
A rapid and catastrophic decline.
"Zendikar's wounds can be healed."
Those who fail to respect power will soon be consumed by it.
An inspiring and glorious ascent.
An organized and methodical reproduction.
"When the herd moves, so should you."\r\n@-Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
"My people have always been here, and here we shall remain."
"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."
"My master believes anything is achievable."
Guarded by cartographers, disdained by warlords, coveted by adventurers.
History is not delicately woven. It is hammered with fire.
She spins a web few can resist. Its sweet aroma sparks chaos in every heart.
Not all who remember Urza do so with fondness.
"You think they know we're here?"\r\n@-Orlo, goblin raider
There are precious few names that echo throughout the Multiverse.
"Where'd all the birds go?"\r\n@-Kaldrin, jungle sightseer
"Those who seek my protection receive it."\r\n@-Nylea, god of the hunt
The Law of Givesies Backsies is respected by every noble pursuer of shiny things.
"Every thought is a string. You just have to find the right ones to pull."
"It's not just what you know. It's knowing where to find what you don't."
"Contrary to popular wisdom, I find it's best to fight fire with its opposite."
"I have a plan. Actually, I have three."
Most of the constructs the renegades used against the Consulate weren't originally intended for combat. But some didn't require much modification.
"I did not think I would understand the cold filigree creatures of this world, but they too are governed by the laws of nature." —Nissa Revane
Each time it is sent to find a safe haven, it takes longer to return.
"Though the afterlife, the city, and even the God-Pharaoh himself were one great deception, the ideals championed by the gods remain true." —Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.
"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!" —Chammi, curio vendor
Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.
It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.
"In my downtime I used to paint the vistas. Now the vistas disappear faster than my downtime."
"Forward! Until the horizon is ours!" —Khemses, charioteer
The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness.
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.
"There is no power too great to be used in the defense of our ancestral lands."
The earth walks, strongest of all.
"You are undeserving of the afterlife. You will never feel the God-Pharaoh's embrace."
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
"Trying to stop it would be foolish. If you feel it coming—run!" —Sergeant Ryda
"Zendikar is always angry, though I've never seen that anger so precisely directed." —Nablus, North Hada trapper
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
"Want to sink a ship? Blow a hole in the hull. Want to kill a regisaur? Same answer." —Captain Brandis Thorn
"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now that's dangerous."
Some of the thallids that escaped into the fens of Urborg began emulating the Cabal's bloodsoaked rituals in their own peculiar way.
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city crave only to spread their curse.
The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.
"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
Life is such a fragile thing.
"You were keen enough to sink your fangs into us, vampire! And now you're afraid of a few little nibbles?" —Udvil "Ratty" Ratlock
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
On Innistrad, Liliana embraced necromancy, honing her powers by practicing on scores of undead—and sometimes the living.
Vastly outnumbered, the Zendikari found creative ways to even the odds.
"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade.
Progress comes at a price.
"I don't need your mage-rings or your mana equations. I call, and the sea answers." —Keyta, rebel hydromancer
"Like ribbons of wind and wisdom the coatls fly, twisting mystery into truth, shaping the clouds to suit their inscrutable will." —Huatli
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
"Improvement is a consequence of practice." —Stitcher Geralf
The remnants of Innistrad's corrupted angelic hosts collapsed to form the Flight of Nightmares.
The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.
The unicorns of Sursi are a manifestation of Serra's joy and compassion. They frolic and dance like children, offering blessings to anyone they encounter.
"Our enemies will soon discover that we are not as meek as they had believed."
"For the lands you have lost and the beauty that remains, for freedom and the future, we must hold nothing back!" —Gideon Jura
Rest sometimes requires the right prompting.
"Undefeated in battle, she is the shining future our empire deserves." —Huatli
Benalish citizens born under the same constellations share a star-clan. Their loyalty to one another interlaces the Seven Houses.
Vampires know blood and the systems that carry it. And they know exactly where to strike to set it free.
"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars." —History of Benalia
"We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies." —Children's prayer
Not even the tallest tree stands a chance against the underside of a dinosaur's foot.
Their fires burn quietly, allowing the phoenixes to glide silently through the canyon.
"Those who stood in my path now lay behind me."
It is ancient, immense, and irresistible.
"No single arrow can pierce an entire flock."
2018 North America Vintage Championship
2018 North America Legacy Championship
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade." —Trostani
"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."
"We in the Conclave have a saying: 'When you hold a shield, lend your shield.' The strong must never forget what they owe to the weak." – Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it."
"We will grow an army large enough to withstand the Izzet's madness." —Trostani
The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers.
"We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost."
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
No one in the Conclave acts alone.
The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways.
From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.
"Ravnica, like a hedge, must be pruned, leaving only leaves of verdant uniformity." —Niszka, Selesnya evangel
Into the light the good are welcomed, and with the light the evil are banished.
There are no soloists in the chorus of Selesnya.
Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
Izzet-designed conductors atop Sunhome charge empty sets of armor that give form to the fluctuating elementals.
Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths.
"Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day." —Gideon Jura, to Aurelia
Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
Firemane Nevena led the victorious assault on the Barbu Rooftop rebels. Now the Gateless have marked her for death.
"Let the pyres of the unbelievers light our way." —Razia
When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him." —Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
Lieutenant Kos has never met a group of recruits he could not inspire or a mob he could not quell.
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
"Subtlety is for lawmages and spies."
"The hard part isn't landing in the saddle. The hard part is leaping before you see it."
"First, you must fight among the rank and file. It is there I will discern your skills as a leader." —Aurelia, to Gideon Jura
Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . .
"Nature's most raw beauty is the circle: perfect in its continuance, with no break between death and life."
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity." —Jarad
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
The rot farmer's first rite of passage is to craft a pair of work stilts.
The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.
Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.
Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.
After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form.
The outskirts of Golgari territory are guarded by more than just walls.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
Tracing the horizon in a dance of wind and fire.
Quyzl was told by his mentor to "make more time" for his studies.
"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."
To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame.
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive." —Niv-Mizzet
"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!" —Trivaz, Izzet mage
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
Izzet brains and Izzet boilers: contents under pressure.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads.
Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable.
The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth.
"(Z–>)90º – (E–N²W)90ºt = 1"
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
The Gruul seek unbounded strength. The Dimir deliver cruel irony.
"Touched by moroii" —Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir." —Szadek
"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits." —Sign outside Dinrova Building
"Fear not. Your life will not go unlived."
"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to." —Lazav
"My favorite meal is angel's flesh, slain in agony and iced with black vinegar." —Aszala of House Dimir
"Allow me a moment to catch your breath."
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
"Patience, mage. Killing you now would be too easy."
"You've strayed, overworlder."
Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.
"It's truly the highest honor, isn't it? To be remembered? Pity for you."
A swiftblade is an artist, each fiery trail of their blades a fleeting masterpiece traced on the air.
"Countermagic is a simple process of breaking matter into its elementary particles."
"Whatever hatred destroys, a single act of trust can revive."
"Commander, what's the signal to attack?" "You'll know."
A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.
Golgari crops bloom in strange soil, touched only by long-traveled light.
"I am the very soul of battle, but even I would never advise open war with the Conclave." —Aurelia
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
Only the patrol's armor was found, so tainted with the acrid smell of sudden death that it could never be worn again.
The assassins of Ochran distill toxins from the remains of the previous victims.
"Variety is also the spice of death." —Covraya, Golgari shaman
"We have intel that some guilds have fallen under an invader's influence. Until we're sure, no venture succeeds." —Lazav
"My greatest creation—me!"
"What bait do you cast to catch a dream?" —Ravnican riddle
"To wage war, secure peace within yourself." —Emmara
"Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings." —Libuse, Boros sergeant
The ultimate answer to intrigue and subtlety.
When the Erstwhile were unearthed from their tombs, they became a ready-made army for Vraska.
The kraul once skulked in the outskirts of Golgari society, but with Vraska's rise, the became valued forces of the Swarm.
Ral had wielded lightning all his life but had never harnessed the power of an entire guild.
Few believe Duskmantle exists. Fewer find it. None live to bear witness.
"Where the roots reach, there the temple rises." —Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"A massive new Izzet building project with an unstated purpose? Probably fine." —Zija, Simic mutationist
"We leave our gardens open, so all may know wonder, but guarded, so all may know peace." —Emmara
"Everyone who crosses that threshold is our most cherished friend. Everyone who crosses it again is our bitterest enemy." —Trostani
"You will not be trained here. You will be forged." —Commander Yaszen
Cradle of the Golgari's new kingdom. Grave of those who wronged its queen.
"Yesterday I didn't recognize my own guild. Today I see why. And for tomorrow I must be prepared." —Niv-Mizzet
Every laboratory buzzes with new experiments, each a piece of Ral's ambitious project.
"Jarad was a friend to the Devkarin. Now we slink through neglected tunnels, befriending those who crawl them." —Izoni
"Shut the gates. In the Underrealm we will outlast the coming doom." —Vraska
The Chamber of the Guildpact stands as a reminder that even the bitterest struggles can end in cooperation.
"You've found this place only because you were summoned. Pray you're worthy of the invitation." —Etrata
"Every guild dreads infiltration. I should know—I've been a member of all of them." —Lazav
"It is our duty to protect all those in need. But the other guilds have never shown themselves worthy of that protection." —Tajic
"The more trust breaks down, the more we must throw open the front gates." —Aurelia
Made by the mad for the work of the wicked.
"These terms are acceptable to House Dimir. Shall we shake on it?"
"Think of the locket as a seed you bear, spreading life from Vitu-Ghazi across all of Ravnica." —Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
"Be advised: suspect is nine stories tall, marble hair, answers to Saint Gusztav."
"Remember to discharge your locket every seven hours. Unless you prefer the spontaneous aether overload, of course." —Daxiver, Izzet electromancer
"Wear it at all times. It will guide our reanimators to your corpse." —Mazirek, kraul death priest
Each night it visits a different guildgate around the city, digging its talons into fresh stone.
"Wear this, and take your place among the shadows—wise, lethal, and unseen." —Ivrelya, Dimir spymaster
By guild tradition, any puddle of multicolored light on the cobblestones can serve as neutral ground.
"We pass these along to our fellow soldiers to recognize deeds of valor. It won't stay with you for long." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
He has a job to finish, and it's you.
"Selesnya's soil is sacred, and you're about to meet it with your face."
"The reign of the Swarm begins. Let us rise now and dress ourselves in vengeance."
Its hyperpneumatics can punch through a wall and the spy on the other side.
"Hold on to your ideals. They'll be tested more than your armor or the edge of your blade." —Tajic
"Something's causing electrospheric disruption in the blazekite's spire-vanes. Find the cause, and tell them to keep it up!" —Juzba, Izzet tinker
A well-chosen word can restore a mind or snap its tethers.
"You've strayed, overworlder."
"Now it's your turn to hide." —Vraska
Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica.
"It's truly the highest honor, isn't it? To be remembered? Pity for you."
A swiftblade is an artist, each fiery trail of their blades a fleeting masterpiece traced on the air.
"Now do you understand what we meant when we said *disperse*?" —Eksari, Boros patrol leader
He heard stars and saw thunder.
Squadrons of skyknights are available for deployment around the clock, capable of reaching any district in the city within minutes.
"I long for peaceful times, when I may tend to my garden instead of our borders."
"The dead gain new purpose here. What is strange in the eyes of other guilds is harmonious in ours." —Devesh, Golgari shaman
"The dagger is just a distraction. I carry the real killer in a vial at my side."
City air is a constant drizzle of private thoughts.
"Three daggers left in an angel's back, three enforcers with memory loss, three keys stolen from my own belt—and you talk of peace?" —Tajic, to Aurelia
"Our forces number more than the leaves of Vitu-Ghazi. Do not provoke us."
"Those who show no mercy to the weak deserve no mercy from the strong." —Firemane Kavrova
"We are the shield that never breaks, the bough that never burns, the song that can never be silenced."
"Countermagic is a simple process of breaking matter into its elementary particles."
"It's like blowing up an arcane library in a thermobaric explosion. But in a good way." —Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
Giants know a solid hit is one part strength, four parts leverage.
"We gather the past from surface dwellers and sell it right back to them."
"Result 752: Rapid mass redistribution. "Result 753: Calamitous reverse synthesis. "Result 754: Acute disarrayment." —Izzet research notes
From death she grows living grandeur.
In the Legion, no flagpole is merely decorative, and every ceremonial sword bears an edge.
"The Erstwhile—rotten of body and outmoded in dress, but unfailing in loyalty." —Vraska
"Whatever hatred destroys, a single act of trust can revive."
"People would sooner savor sweet lies than chew plain truths." —Lazav
Just assume every conversation is on record.
"Commander, what's the signal to attack?" "You'll know."
"I've seen your house, and you've been a lovely, if unwitting, host. But at last it's time for farewells."
"Just as leaves fall and the tree blooms again, one day I will fall and the Conclave will endure."
"It is not your time. The Legion still needs your blade."
"Please accept this offering. I sincerely hope to leave my mace at my side."
"Within the song of Mat'Selesnya, one becomes all." —Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
"Send your champion. I could use a light workout."
The Izzet love replicating results.
A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska.
Dimir assassinations are choreographed like dance routines. Each challenge is anticipated and countered with graceful ease.
Once part of a wealthy merchant's private zoo, the herd roams feral throughout the Tenth, where it will remain until the guilds can agree to relocate, cull, or befriend it.
"Be like the grazers of the Saruli. Keep your herd close, and stay alert for encroaching danger." —Lalia, Selesnya dryad
Golgari crops bloom in strange soil, touched only by long-traveled light.
Ravnica's diversity produces blossoms of opinion in a rich soil of perspectives.
Suddenly, all the haggling didn't seem so important.
"Light up the dark to find your way, and the dark may seek you out." —Zalin the Gutter Bard
Nature's way of saying "take the long way home."
Selesnya grows its ranks in more ways than one.
"There is nothing stronger than many hearts united for a single cause." —Emmara
Feed on food, you eventually rot. Feed on rot, you live forever. —Kraul saying
"Please don't feed the beetles." —Promenade warning sign
Nearly invisible strands of web reach for beyond its lair to alert it of the approach of prey.
Some rooftop gardens attract bees; others capture dragons.
What the Golgari can't claim through patient undercity expansion, they seize in brazen topside sorties.
Cats place their gifts with care, so that a bare foot will step on them in the middle of the night.
"The route is direct but challenging. Incidentally, how are you with heights?"
"This is Mileva, in the Tenth. We've got an elf in the plaza with a chip on her shoulder. Actually, it's more of a morningstar."
"The Dimir may look all they want. We never grow tired of swatting their bugs." —Heruj, Selesnya hierophant
"The shortest path between two points is not always the safest." —Tamina, district guide
"I am the very soul of battle, but even I would never advise open war with the Conclave." —Aurelia
"The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street."
The problem isn't the indrik's enthusiasm, it's Ravnica's lack of guardrails.
"By all means, take another step toward the captain."
"Light a torch and deliver this letter" were his instructions, which he unfortunately reversed.
"I packed three more electroconduits into each test wand. You'll experience a brief tingling sensation."
"They said obey and you'll be happy. They said you'll be safe. But we're not safe. We're not happy. And we will not obey." —Domri Rade
"Don't arrest him—enlist him!" —Commander Yaszen
Some Gruul druids believe that boars are spawn of the great Ilharg, the mighty Raze-Boar who will one day rise and level the city.
"Nobody ever listens to my complaints! Not even when I use the listening stick."
"They tell us the wilds are ours, then they brick them over. They can lie to our faces but not to our fists." —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"Commander, we caught the Dimir spy and took her ashes into custody." —Kramm, Wojek security officer
"The Izzet are blamed for every little disaster, which is unfair because we only cause most of them." — Mizzix of the Izmagnus
"They play by spitting fire at each other. Don't be offended if one gives you a love-scorch." —Esfir, Rakdos dragon wrangler
"He's got more finesse than most goblins. He smashes windows with his fist rather than his forehead." —Arrester Polgar
The Boros banner stands tall even if its bearer doesn't.
Rain runoff in the Smelting District is known to spontaneously burst into flame.
"I spent some time in the Legion, but I'm done taking orders all day."
Turns out coffee is the weird aunt of invention.
"The League accepts no responsibility for former members and the damage they may cause." —Maree, Izzet chamberlain
"It's both an ingress-denial mechanism and an attractive hallway light!" —Daxiver, Izzet electromancer
"This sort of innovation occurs when you set out to improve an electric tea kettle and misplace a decimal."
In the wake of Niv-Mizzet's disappearance, Ral found himself leading the guild. He had dreamed of this day, but couldn't help feeling like a pawn in someone else's game.
"Not my first edition of *The Advokist and the Urchin*!"
"Don't stop till your horns come out their back."
Some storms never blow over.
"Sure, I hear things. I hear plenty. But how am I to talk with this parched throat?"
"The alliances were already frayed. All we do is find the loose threads and pluck." —Lazav
"I sang songs of sorrow for my lost love. Imagine my horror when, one night, they were answered." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
In its territory, living is an affront.
The Golgari adorn themselves with the exoskeletons of iridescent insects. It's only fair the insects do likewise.
"I've seen Ravnica's fate. Believe me, I'm doing you a favor."
Only the patrol's armor was found, so tainted with the acrid smell of sudden death that it could never be worn again.
"My power is generosity, in a way. I give my survivors an appreciation for their lives."
Dimir assassins have the precision to slay a single memory.
The assassins of Ochran distill toxins from the remains of the previous victims.
No one welcomes his visit, yet all must grant him tribute.
Ravnica's safest strongholds are often neither.
"I prefer the big and looming to the small and skittering." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
The hive has a long memory. It knows how every member has died, and tow home it owes the grudge.
"They don't even feel the cut. I'm ordering a drink in a nearby tavern before anyone notices something's wrong."
"Variety is also the spice of death." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
The party of Rakdos revelers cackled and capered as the thing approached. It hissed, and they jabbed their torches at it, giggling when it recoiled. Then, one by one, the torches went out—and the screaming began.
The sound of every twisted secret tempts you to hear another.
All things considered, his first day on patrol could have gone better.
No guilds—that is her rule. The House vampires unnerve her. The Combine would dissect her, the Legion burn her, the Conclave "cure" her. The shadows are all the family she needs.
"Even rats hoard their treasures. Are your precious thing so different?" —Izoni
"Bats are welcome to eat thousands of my pets. I have multitudes more that will ultimately eat the bats." —Izoni
The Dimir rarely make statements, but when they do, the message is clear.
"What wishes do they grant? Mostly pinching-related ones." —Omik, superintendent of waterworks
Fog haunts the streets, rendering familiar as otherworldly, changing neighbors into shadows, and muffling cries for help.
"There's no need to sound the alarm. You are minding your post admirably. I am authorized. All is well."
The first thing the mist chills is the mind. Victims never cry out or even murmur in surprise.
"We have intel that some guilds have fallen under an invader's influence. Until we're sure, no venture succeeds." —Lazav
"How thoughtful of the Legion to train its soldiers to fit our spell's specifications." —Nefara, Dimir agent
Genius is finding the edge of what's possible, then jumping over it.
"My greatest creation—me!"
"My doors are called trespassing, my signatures, forgeries. They don't respect my talents, and I don't respect their labels."
She memorized every arcane text in the Ismeri Library by the time she was sixteen. Now she quizzes sphinxes in her spare time.
"We're on the fortieth floor, with one window, no balcony. No one could possibly get in." —Minosz, Orzhov chief of security
"What bait do you cast to catch a dream?" —Ravnican riddle
A composer wrote a symphony based on the drakes screeching outside her window. Reviews were mixed—except among the drakes.
Rumors float through the city like crows, alighting on citizens seemingly at random.
"Most compete for insects at street level. Some dwell near Izzet laboratories and ride the thermal updrafts." —Yolov, Simic bioengineer.
In a climate of suspicion, Isperia gathered the guilds to propose a radical idea: cooperation.
"Who are the agents of the Dimir? No one and everyone." —Lazav
Beneath Ravnica's streets runs a layer of tunnels, then caverns, then waterways, then terrors and nightmares.
"Laws apply only to those who lack the vision to see past them."
The letters arrive, all sealed and read.
First, dispose of the evidence. Then dispose of your knowledge of the disposal.
All those who trade in questions must answer to the Dimir.
"My specialty is theoretical universal limits and ways to circumvent them."
"The Tenth has always been my home. This city is constantly embroiled in one crisis or another, but I'm determined to protect my piece."
In the quiet before a battle, Boros soldiers whisper prayers that steady their nerves and focus their minds.
"The trouble with youths these days is that, in outright defiance of their elders, they refuse to be bought." —Karlov of the Ghost Council
"Before I let you wield one of these, let's see you dodge one!"
"Sometimes an angel passes by and gives me a little nod, like, 'You're a daring one!' That always makes my day."
Rocs' innate fearlessness makes them ideal mounts for emergency response.
"The Golgari believe they should be given what they deserved. On this we agree." —Tajic
"Too many have disappeared in these dark days. I am the light that will lead them home."
"Article 5.8.2. Ensure proper restraint of any and all arms, legs, claws, jaws, tails, tentacles, and tendrils as appropriate." —*Azorius Arrester Procedure*, Appendix B.
"I've raised her since she was a pup, and she's raised me since I was a recruit."
Good at carrying things. Really good at knocking them down.
There are two lives: The life you live before you see a unicorn, and the life you live after.
He ferried weapons, spells, exotic animals—but his most dangerous cargo was the truth.
The wounded see the glow of its vials long before they see its wings diving out of the clouds.
Ravnica's convoluted power structure often boils down to who can muster the most swords on a given block.
"You won't need the sword drills, your shields, or my blessing. You'll fight for Sunhome with the truth in your heart." —Aurelia
"Yes, there's competition between our equenauts and the Boros skyjeks. At least they think it's a competition."
The angels appreciated the offer but politely declined to eat any birdseed.
There's no greater honor than joining your chosen guild, and no greater shame than failing it.
"To wage war, secure peace within yourself." —Emmara
The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself.
"Reports of Gruul rioters in four districts. Start with the big ones and work your way up." —Libuse, Boros sergeant
"Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings." —Libuse, Boros sergeant
Selesnya guildmages do not sleep so the rest of the conclave can.
"Lately I've seen the biggest bounties of my career—and for the biggest names."
"Watch carefully. The gap between death and victory is thinner than your blade."
Every predator is something else's prey.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
2018 Asia Legacy Champion
2018 Asia Vintage Champion
"With angels came mysteries." —Tamiyo's journal
Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.
Each cryptolith twists the plane's mana, bending its flow to a singular purpose.
Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas." —Kiora
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea." —Kiora
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.
The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.
Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah." —Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab
A ghoulcaller's playground.
"I love what they've done with the place." —Liliana Vess
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra.
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
History has buried its treasures deep.
The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
"The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond." —Elspeth's journal
Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
A light to bring hope in dark times.
A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness.
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains." —Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
The faces of Geth's corpse-dredgers are disturbingly similar.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?" —Jhoira, master artificer
Knight-Inquisitors of Saint Raban delve deep into mysteries best left unexplored.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned." "And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
One part unstoppable force, one part immovable object.
It glints with arcane truths to those who know how to glimpse them.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"Her people angered Zendikar, and they faced the land's wrath. That is why Nissa is the last of the animists."—Numa, Joraga chieftain
"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example." —Trigori, Azorius senator
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
"All I require is faith, loyalty, obedience, trust, and complete and utter devotion."
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves.
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .
"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power." —Marchesa, the Black Rose
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky.
Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could." —Karador, Ghost Chieftain
It's the only water source in miles of desert, but the local tribes avoid it at all costs.
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs." —Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
"Let the forest spread! From salt, stone, and fen, let the new trees rise." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
The border between life and death is as thin as a layer of topsoil.
The horizon is tantalizing in both its uncertainty and its potential.
"We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally." —Thrass, elder druid
The distinction of bearing the gods' banner is nothing compared to the glory of being closer to Nyx.
No spot in nature is truly barren.
"Let all we have buried be buried forever." —Seton, centaur druid
Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will.
The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life.
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
From mite to mighty.
"The wise learn from their successes as well as their mistakes."
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.
Only Sylvok magic could truly capture the perfection of a Mirrodin sunrise.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.
It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind.
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"—Nicol Bolas
Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath.
"We train for the improbably, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once." —Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Because the dead have no will to resist.
At every fifth full moon, the Moon Market convenes to peddle Ravnica's most forbidden wares.
Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
Stand against the crash of the river's rapids and you will know the power of the naiads.
"Soaring is wasted on the winged." —Edric, Spymaster of Trest
"The longer the journey, the more one learns." —Isanke, Halimar seastalker
"Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face." —Barrin, master wizard
"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains." —Esper fable
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
Dreams' riches are easily spent. —Suq'Ata adage
"Knowledge is cruel. It will break your heart and test your allegiances. Are you certain you want this curse?"
It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
"Is it not the embodiment of our aspirations?" —Prokopios, astronomer of Meletis
The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence." —Oracle en-Vec
After Gideon cleansed the Ninth District, none of the ganglords challenged the Boros.
"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other." —Tariel, Reckoner of Souls
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.
"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."
"United, our roar will level mountains."
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.
History is not delicately woven. It is hammered with fire.
Guarded by cartographers, disdained by warlords, coveted by adventurers.
She talks using riddles her disciples alone can unravel.
Not all who remember Urza do so with fondness.
"My people have always been here, and here we shall remain."
She spins a web few can resist. Its sweet aroma sparks chaos in every heart.
"My master believes anything is achievable."
"Where'd all the birds go?" —Kaldrin, jungle sightseer
"Zendikar's wounds can be healed."
Death eventually wiggles toward us all.
"Those who seek my protection shall receive it." —Nylea, god of the hunt
There are precious few names that echo throughout the Multiverse.
Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor.
"When the herd moves, so should you." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
The Law of Givesies Backsies is respected by every noble pursuer of shiny things.
Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination.
Those who fail to respect power will soon be consumed by it.
A rapid and catastrophic decline.
Zombies work best when they're fed appropriately, so it's prudent to let them eat on the job.
"Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat."
"And who will stop me? You?"
"Doves and pigeons are too subtle. When I send a message, I want it to have some teeth." —Aeschel, royal diplomat
"You think they know we're here?" —Orlo, goblin raider
Enchanters add layer upon layer of complexity to the world around them.
An organized and methodical reproduction.
An inspiring and glorious ascent.
Those with vision always have a path.
To succeed, the wizards made a deal with devils.
"It's not work if you enjoy it."
The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.
The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.
The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.
Its light exposes enemies and lays secrets bare.
The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.
The grave robbers were started, for the door the mausoleum was already open.
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
Whether it is magical, lucky, or merely old, it is cherished, and that gives it power.
Sister of Nicol Bolas. Survivor of the Elder Dragon War. The most vicious of her kin.
"Whether we like it or not, our arrival has altered the landscape." —Malcolm, navigator of the Belligerent
The Sun Empire's most sacred sites are protected by more than prayers.
"Look at how cute it is now!" —Vivien Reid
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
You don't want to know how she got that name.
"Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!" —Vivien Reid
No single root feeds the forest.
"Folks 'round here are too in love with their contraptions. Does them some good if we smash every one so often."
"Burn. Burn. Keep. Burn".
A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.
Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"As I desire, so it shall be." —Nicol Bolas
"A rare and fascinating phenomenon." —Tamiyo
It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.
"It's not work if you enjoy it."
Immortality is worth any price.
"When these intruders are gone, Zendikar will be my throne, my palace, my playground."
"Rise and shine, my dears. We have work to do." —Isareth the Awakener
The Great Mending that healed the Multiverse also unraveled the threads of Nicol Bolas's power.
A pit yawned open, a column of oily smoke arose, and a towering form hissed, "I accept this offering."
For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
Its roar is the clatter of a thousand bones.
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."
A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating.
"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."
Nicol Bolas would not rest until he was restored to his former glory.
"When I grafted the Planar Bridge into myself, I felt my Planeswalker spark flare beyond my body. The Multiverse was my plaything. It felt . . . incredible." —Tezzeret
"The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom." — Jace Beleren
The delight of discovery drives the pursuit of knowledge.
Hospitality is of little concern to those who do not wish to be disturbed.
"Defeat is no reason for retreat. It is a sign we must redouble our efforts to win this fight."
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby.
"Those who do evil and those who do nothing are equally worthy of contempt."
Threefold were his crimes, doubled were his pleas, singular was his fate.
In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.
As the Cabal legions pushed into Shiv, they learned not to stand so close together.
"I can hear the plunder calling. It asks for me by name."
With matchless stealth, the River Heralds fought a running battle against the three enemy forces.
"The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still."
As the ship approached, the jade totem rose high overhead. Power rippled. Eyes of stone glowed and crackled. Out hissed a breath of the world, and a windstorm came alive.
Just as the sun rises at dawn and the days lengthen in the summer, the Sun Empire has awakened after long years of quiet.
Sarkhan wandered into a tomb and back in time.
Each of Vivien's arrows is an invocation of a species.
"Wold you rather feel the edge of blade or the sharpness of my fangs?"
"This imprint was the familiar of a friend." —Vivien Reid
"Approach from behind. That way, if it does charge, at least you aren't in front of it." —Vivien Reid
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"I am most myself when I am least human."
"Only those who give the dragons the respect they deserve may bear our title."
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city crave only to spread their curse.
Once every seven years it flies on spectral wings over the moors of ancient battlefields.
"I'm not picky about what comes up, but the less decay, the better." —Liliana Vess
"More obedient than any dog." —Tezzeret
Its elaborate designs reveal secrets of aether's flow.
"Safe passage requires only a simple answer to a simple question, traveler."
A pair of domesticated griffins escaped from captivity a century ago. Now the skies are filled with the songs of their descendants.
She watches over the city just as Serra watches over all.
"The healers of Bant are second to none. I owe then a great deal for their tutelage." —Ajani Goldmane
Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.
Beyond the chaos of Ghirapur lies a vibrant world where aether flows through nature.
Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea." —Kiora
The bedrock has many gifts to give.
The most holy treasures are kept far from unclean soil.
The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.
"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah." —Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab
The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors.
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
Its light exposes enemies and lays secrets bare.
"I do as I choose with what is mine. And it is all mine." —Nicol Bolas
All the books were dusty with disuse, save the one titled Camouflage and Its Practical Applications.
The municipal senate makes extensive use of the thopters, mostly to gather dirt on rival senators.
Thievery requires subtlety, from the beginning of the heist to the end.
Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust.
The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater.
A sharp axe solves most problems.
Planeswalkers seek out great monuments throughout the Multiverse, knowing that their builders were unknowingly drawn by the convergence of mana in the area.
Made in its creator's image, though slightly more clangy.
"Do not mistake a quiet rampart for one that is unguarded. Some things stir only when they need to." —Bonovar, siege commander
Entrepreneurs have attempted to sell the water, but to no avail. Whatever magic it contains disappears upon bottling.
As it walks across the fallow field, its awkward, loping gait matches the rattling in its head to create a haunting rhythm that chills the bones.
"Souls are volatile things. When compressed and loaded into a handheld device, their destructive potential is quite impressive." —Dierk, geistmage
When it passes, rainbows follow.
The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open.
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
Knowledge itself is neither good nor evil. Just as the wrong book in the wrong hands could doom all existence, the same book in the right hands could save it.
Whether it is magical, lucky, or merely old, it is cherished, and that gives it power.
"The threads of magic that protect this place were woven by my will."
Those of esteemed birth earn a most esteemed death.
"I turn around and see nothing, yet I know it is behind me. Its fingers rummage in my mind, crafting new ideas."
Sister of Nicol Bolas. Survivor of the Elder Dragon War. The most vicious of her kin.
Cries of anguish quickly spurred cries of action.
Many initiates believe it possesses secrets beyond imagining. Many have become meals trying to learn them.
"If I am to die, I will die in the embrace of an immeasurable flame."
The best of their trade know every bolt of their rigs, stem to stern.
Like all jungle plants, the vines must fight and claw for sunlight. Once their place is secured, they grow strong, sharp, and impenetrable.
When it passes, the dead are displaced by flourishing life.
Villagers employ watchdogs as guardians and companions. Druids prefer something a little bigger.
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
"Halana grew brambles to create a barricade around our camp, hoping that it would keep the wolves out. That was a mistake for which we almost paid dearly." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
"Whether we like it or not, our arrival has altered the landscape." —Malcolm, navigator of the Belligerent
The Sun Empire's most sacred sites are protected by more than prayers.
The only casualties were a snapped spear, a lost helmet, and some bruised egos.
"The further into the future I look, the less certain my vision. Even now, the middle distance is obscured by fire."
"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language."
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"You should have seen the look on both their faces." —Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper
"Look at how cute it is now!" —Vivien Reid
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?" —Dionus, elvish archdruid
"And if you threaten me again, your shiny steel trousers will be sprouting daggerthorn vines." —Iveta, rooftop runner
"Bring down a stag and fix its horns upon Arel's head. She hears the wisdom of our ancestors." —Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
Within a mile of the woodland, you will feel her eyes upon you. Within its borders, you will feel her blade.
You don't want to know how she got that name.
"Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!" —Vivien Reid
"After everything I've survived, it's hard to be frightened by anything anymore." —Vivien Reid
Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders.
They grow closer with every passing season.
No single root feeds the forest.
"The land already knows its destiny. I simply ask it to share the tale with me."
"The wild tangle of the Cowl provides sanctuary to life that watched the first buildings rise."
No welcome for those who trespass. Only fang and horn and claw.
"If you think yourself a chief, then prove your might." —Gar-Tun, Mistvalley silverback
Its ventricles weep venom, and it consumes only poison.
"Might doesn't just build empires. It protects them." —Inti, Sun Empire knight
If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind." —Ramal, sage of Westgate
"Nicol Bolas destroyed my world. I owe it to Skalla to celebrate all life, no matter how dangerous." —Vivien Reid
"Fill the sky with stuff!"
Sometimes an eruption in Shiv produces something more dangerous than a mere river of molten rock.
"I trained with the Ghitu, and I respect the fire as they do."
The sound of the trumpets lights a fire in the hearts of the bold and snuffs the courage of the cowardly.
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?" —Sarkhan Vol
"Give 'em a push." —Mogwin, goblin delinquent
"You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!" —Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord
To survive imminent doom, it sometimes takes a foolhardy soul who acts first and fears later.
Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around.
The creation of new weapons demands the destruction of others.
No rampart can withstand the fury of a giant.
The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.
The ogres you know are nothing like the Onakke. Possessing both intellect and industry, they had brute strength without being brutish.
To wield lightning is to tame chaos.
When it passes, storm clouds bolt across the land.
"Catch!"
The bellow of minotaur always translates to "charge."
For devils, burning things is the highest form of comedy, diversion, and artistic expression.
"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"
"Folks 'round here are too in love with their contraptions. Does them some good if we smash every one so often."
Small words stoke large flames.
"We can take 'em. You go first!"
It treads on feet of coals and strikes with the force of a volcano.
Negotiations reached an abrupt conclusion.
"Some hid from the storm. I embraced it and learned its name."
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
First the insult, then the encore.
"Burn. Burn. Keep. Burn".
A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far.
Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future.
As the hyperstormic generator crept past redline, a being emerged from the arc.
He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"As I desire, so it shall be." —Nicol Bolas
"A rare and fascinating phenomenon." —Tamiyo
She learned a tragic lesson that day: even the purest can be corrupted when the heart's emotions are twisted.
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"Your service shall be rewarded." —Queen Lian
One day, they may be paragons of deadly elegance. For the moment, they possess nothing but thirst.
"Thread the torsos together with angel hair to ensure they will cooperate in battle." —The Stitcher's Tome
Imagine a thousand tiny mushrooms cropping up within your lungs.
No part goes to waste.
"You have given all to your kingdom, dear knight. Serenity shall be your prize." —Queen Lian
From the perpetual shadowsmoke that hung above the ship, a silent form emerged, lips curled with malice and anticipation.
"When it comes to killing with precision, a soul is but a hindrance." —Isareth the Awakener
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
A harpy's hoard is a filthy, bloodstained pile of trinkets and corpses.
When it passes, those who sleep dream of sickness and death.
It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget.
That feeling of something on your chest is usually sleep paralysis. Occasionally, it's something else.
"It's not work if you enjoy it."
Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design.
Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead.
Immortality is worth any price.
A lich must consume mortal souls to feed its eternal life.
One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death.
"When these intruders are gone, Zendikar will be my throne, my palace, my playground."
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.
"If you want them dead, buy some poison. If you want them to have the worst day of their life before dying, then let's talk price."
"Rise and shine, my dears. We have work to do." —Isareth the Awakener
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
The Great Mending that healed the Multiverse also unraveled the threads of Nicol Bolas's power.
"Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage."
"It hurts more if you think about it." —Hooks, Cabal torturer
There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.
"At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs." —Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
A pit yawned open, a column of oily smoke arose, and a towering form hissed, "I accept this offering."
For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
Its roar is the clatter of a thousand bones.
"They are gentle herbivores, despite their size. Approach cautiously, and hum a tune to let them know you mean no harm." —Vivien Reid
Predicting the future is a messy business.
Tenacity prevails when hopes die.
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."
The seafloor is flecked with the bones of fools who dared sail into the mist.
The cold slowed their movements until only their panicked eyeballs swiveled beneath the ice.
Fblthp had always hated crowds.
The Tolarian Academies embrace a tradition of study and research while discouraging the kinds of experiments that ruined the original island of Tolaria.
Say hello to your new friend.
When it passes, waves touch the sky.
A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating.
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious." —Garild, merfolk mage
Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.
"The path of the stars is as reliable as the instruments that measure them."
The greatest treasure of the deep is an echo from above.
"Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard."
"To break another's mind is to deliver a fate worse than death. It is a terrifying power." —Jace Beleren
Nicol Bolas would not rest until he was restored to his former glory.
"When I grafted the Planar Bridge into myself, I felt my Planeswalker spark flare beyond my body. The Multiverse was my plaything. It felt . . . incredible." —Tezzeret
"The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom." — Jace Beleren
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
The delight of discovery drives the pursuit of knowledge.
Hospitality is of little concern to those who do not wish to be disturbed.
The life of a shapeshifter is one of constant change.
"Picking locks is for beginners."
Young artificers on Kaladesh let their imaginations run wild.
"Reel it in. No, wait! Throw it back!" —Gertrude, deep-sea angler
Successful battles start with knowing who's worth fighting.
Dependence on luck is anathema to Kefnet's rigorous studies. Those who hope to escape his maze by chance never succeed.
The collection didn't have room to expand, so the wizard improvised a solution.
"The stars mark your destiny. May you accept the fate thus divulged."
It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with.
"I decide what stands in my way."
"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"They say that perfection is unattainable, but they say that about flight too."
"My skill sharpens with each beat of my wings."
Divining the future is easy when you hold the power to sway it.
If you can't find a doorway, make one.
"Defeat is no reason for retreat. It is a sign we must redouble our efforts to win this fight."
"Margaret has traveled with me to the end of the world and back." —Hewen Frit, merchant
"Your death will be a balm, your passing a welcome revision, and all will sigh with peace to know of your demise."
White as starlight on snow, it appears only on the eve of the winter solstice.
When it passes, order defeats chaos.
Native to wide prairies and scrublands, falcons occasionally roost in dragon skeletons.
"A potion is no substitute for a skilled surgeon, but it will hold your bits in." —Torricks, battlefield medic
A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest.
A pegasus chooses its rider, bearing the worthy into the clouds and tossing all others to the ground.
The leonin of Oreskos are quick to take offense—not because they are thin-skinned but because they are always ready for a fight.
Even the greatest hero begins with nothing.
"I feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh in the Second Sun, and I rise upon its rays."
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten.
"Your part in this fight is done, vampire. Get used to your thirst."
Loxodons are firm in stature and spirit. No matter the odds, they are always first into battle.
When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby.
The best fighters are skilled in both harming and healing.
"Those who do evil and those who do nothing are equally worthy of contempt."
"As long as my faith persists, so shall I."
"Horse? Who needs a horse?"
Threefold were his crimes, doubled were his pleas, singular was his fate.
"Let go of all that harms you. Cast your burdens into the darkness, and build for the faithful a house of light." —Song of All, canto 1008
"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, … and they were barely a tenth of our number!" —General Avitora
Law protects but it also contains.
The clerics prayed for salvation. The soldiers prayed for victory. Both prayers were answered.
"Our duty does not stop at our borders."
"These storied halls are under my protection."
"May the light shine through me to guide the lost."
In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form.
She sings for all those who have been silenced.
"You cannot defend others if your own well-being is neglected."
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers." —Jazal Goldmane
Most smiths shape metal, but some prefer more delicate materials.
Inner strength is never seen until it makes all the difference.
The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent.
A rare find, suitable for the most discerning collector.
"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed." —Chainer's Torment
The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?
"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot." —Teferi
"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
Near the Western Seas lies Mount Zhaoyao—a forest of stones that reaches the clouds, a bountiful land of wondrous treasures and strange animals.
"Crackle" and "pop" are the most wondrous sounds.
"As my hands touched it, I realized that I had not found it—it had been leading me here."
"Prepare for battle!" —Jiang Yanggu
"Mowu was wary that day, as though he sensed the danger ahead." —Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
Fire leads to more fire.
A pangolin's scales are resistant to all sorts of damage and weaponry. Desire for them threatens to drive the pangolin to extinction.
"For reasons unknown to me, herds in the Arrow Bamboo Forest have become more and more agitated." —Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
Its wings are a heavenly inferno that sets the world ablaze.
If you can see it clearly, you're already on fire.
Known for their glowing horn and stone-rattling roar, zheng are the fiercest predators in the forest. Few survived before Jiang Yanggu came.
The welcoming appearance of the Arrow Bamboo Forest masks its deathly hostility.
"A pangolin's power grows with its speed. Strike when you have the chance!" —Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
The pale deer are believed to have lived a thousand years, the pure white five hundred more. Those who seek them would gladly wander the wilds forever for the merest glimpse of these sacred beings.
Two bodies, twice the malice.
This strange beast has the hide of a leopard, the howl of a dog, and the horns of an ox.
Clouds and mists cover the lake as though it were a dreamland. When the wind rises, the mists disperse, opening great vistas of rippling reeds.
A heaven-sent vision is like a lantern to guide the way.
"The Ancestor Dragon appeared atop the clouds, amid shattering mountains and sundering earth." —Jiang Yanggu's travelogue
"From the swallows, I learned how to ride the winds to anywhere, and from my tears, I mastered how to harness the water."
"Interesting . . . This mortal being seems to have been blessed with Qilin's essence." —Mu Yanling's journal
Mystery lies beneath the haunting mists. Never stay where obscurity deepens.
It is said that Yinglong gave birth to the qilin and the phoenix, and after them, all of the hairy and winged beings in the world. Thus it is known as the Ancestor Dragon.
The spirits of all the rivers and oceans came together as an unstoppable force, unleashing their fury as lightning and thunder.
The most nimble of creatures, it chases the most sacred luminence.
Deep in the Northern Mountains, the yaks linger silently, channeling the powers of the earth.
It has waited a millennium just for you, and for a millennium will it watch over your descendants.
Not all enormous beasts are quick to anger.
It strides through the universe as though stepping on the stars, crossing freely between the celestial and earthly worlds.
It stops flying only as its life comes to an end.
The rainbow seen above the Great Lake of Cloud Dream just after the rain is nothing but the vivid-colored flying fishes' ritual dance.
A precious shell without, a delicious taste within.
These nimble sparrows, not often seen, delight in tricking the pangolins that wander the forest.
"Every thought is a string. You just have to find the right ones to pull."
"It's not just what you know. It's knowing where to find what you don't."
"I have a plan. Actually, I have three."
"Contrary to popular wisdom, I find it's best to fight fire with its opposite."
"Get ready, son."
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas." —Kiora
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
That which endures, survives.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed." —Koth of the Hammer
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
History has buried its treasures deep.
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective.
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
"Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!" —Rayne, chancellor of the Tolarian Academy
Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain." —Volux, disciple of Nin
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." —Elspeth Tirel
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?" —Jhoira, master artificer
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing." —Melira
Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.
"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Garbage in, treasure out.
Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.
"Our glorious infection has taken hold." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, the Pretender
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was." —Koth of the Hammer
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
"In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass." —Cluestone inscription
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."
Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
"Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind." —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.
The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer.
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could." —Karador, Ghost Chieftain
One quiet word sets off the stampede.
It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind." —Modruni, maro-sorcerer
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
Even baloths fear its feeding time.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride." —Golran, dragonscale captain
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Obey!"
The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the incompleat.
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
Its wings beat to the howls of war and fan the fires of rage.
Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath.
Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.
He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books.
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"Where a lesser mind sees junk, I see infinite potential."
"Behold astronomy's contribution to war." —Fennor Rhyl, starcaller
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?" —Nicol Bolas
Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth.
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
Nothing breaks the monotony like a good old-fashioned riot.
The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.
"Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit." —Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear." —Gaddock Teeg
"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.
When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.
Giants share nothing but their fury.
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me." —Xantcha, to Gix
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones.
Life is such a fragile thing.
Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —*Scroll of Beginnings*
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it." —Barrin, master wizard
"Soaring is wasted on the winged." —Edric, Spymaster of Trest
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."
Fools surrender their sanity to his riddles. Even greater fools try to solve them.
"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail." —Lodus of the Ethersworn
"Even your blade knows who will triumph here." —Atraxa, Praetors' Voice
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Her voice is insight, piercing and true." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion.
A blazing sun that never sets.
Exhale, and let the winds carry your soul for all eternity.
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
The best techniques outlive their creators.
"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error." —The Invokers' Tales
Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates.
Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."
"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."
"She will come back to me."
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye.
Poets dream the verses of otherworldly stories. Artificers dream the blueprints of otherplanar artifacts.
"Though tempered differently, all wills can be broken." —Inquisitor Kyrik
The sculptor, like most artists, put his heart and soul in his work. But the newly awakened golem decided he wanted his creator's other, more tangible parts.
The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.
A light to bring hope in dark times.
"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle." —Kessla, Sylvok shaman
"One head watches for Consulate enforcers. The other watches for renegade thieves." —Crime Lord Gonti
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
"You've got to keep your wits about you on the roofs. Not all stones are compliant handholds." —Iveta, rooftop runner
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.
"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause." —Ezuri, renegade leader
Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither.
"As the experimental population grows, so do the number of myr. It's a perfect equilibrium." —Memnarch
Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.
"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
All skyships entering or leaving the fairgrounds must pass through the security checkpoint.
Relentless as the sea, remorseless as death.
It sleeps with its claws open.
"In this new world, I have seen the once-devout rhoxes take up arms with the savages of Jund. I would be offended, but I see the wisdom in their choice." —Gernan, Dawnray archer
"I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end."
Once a year, Akrasa holds a joust that draws knights and their leotaus from every nation on Bant. The prize is an Akrasan sigil, but the true reward is the angel's kiss.
Few among the Azorius have ever spoken with the sphinxes, but all have felt their influence.
"Everyone has a price."
You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you.
Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.
"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits." —Sign outside Dinrova Building
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!" —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
Humans still feared wolves, though no connection between them and the curse of lycanthropy had ever been proved.
The forest's constant struggle is to keep the spreading flowstone at bay.
"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
"A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one … well, it's a tasty dinner." —Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"Dragons are feared for their breath and their bite, but it is their wings that make them unconquerable. Bring them to earth, and they die like any other beast." —Kassur, Sultai hunter
"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
"To the unskilled, it appears as blurred patches of distorted light. Few have seen its true form." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"It might fight the Eldrazi, but don't mistake it for a companion, Gideon. It's not interested in your concept of strength through unity."—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru
"What would Urza think, I wonder, if he could hear how the nature mages still snarl at his name, but venerate the work of his apprentice?" —Teferi, to Jhoira
Gideon and Nissa carved a path through the Eldrazi swarm, and their Zendikari allies charged into the fray behind them.
The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system.
The harvest god's cornucopia contains the fruits of the fields, the forest, and beyond.
Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
"There's wisdom to be gained in death—whether it be one's own or someone else's." —Jarad, Golgari Lich-Lord
"The prohibition of unnecessary tossing of the citizenry by giants shall also extend to spontaneous giants." —Isperia's Edict, provision VII.789.2
The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life.
It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
"Petrifying gaze, deadly fangs, knifelike dorsal spines, venomous saliva . . . Am I missing anything? . . . Toxic bones? Seriously?" —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
Consulate guards who pursue fleeing renegades into the Cowl often become lost—occasionally permanently—in the city's wildest greenbelt.
The knights of Troinir Keep took the rhino as their emblem due to its intense focus when charging down a perceived threat—a trait they discovered on a hunting excursion.
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
"A slayer gets by on wits and reflexes." —Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf
"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed." —The War Diaries
Razia, archangel of war, demands total commitment.
"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
Lightning reflexes, thunderous might.
The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.
"The gods of Theros are born of the expectations and beliefs of mortals. If I have found godhood, what does that say about their true desires?" —Xenagos, god of revels
"The expected way through the trial is far too tedious."
It's the pinnacle of utter destructiveness.
"The victim was either clawed to death or struck by lightning. Possibly both." —Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
Finding themselves in a new and unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
"I run, and thunder follows."
If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.
The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly.
Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth." —Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
"Now everyone knows what you are."
Succession is a matter of blood, and by blood it is often decided.
Fire never dies alone.
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
"I will build no sanctuaries. The safety you seek can be won only by the sword." —Yannash, outpost builder
The scent of cooked flesh lingers in the charred landscape of Tarkir.
Raising the bones of Hekjek the Mad proved far easier than getting them to lie back down.
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
In the Gudul delta, bloodfly bites are indistinguishable from spear wounds.
It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss.
Once he gets up and going, he will forever shamble on.
"A shrill creature that delights in the misery of others—what's not to love?" —Braids, dementia summoner
Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?
It's rare that the Prakhata Club closes its doors. It's also rare that Lord Gonti meets with Consul Kambal. What are the odds the two would occur on the same day?
"You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you." —Senifet, vizier of Bontu
Born of volcanic forces, it thrives on the absolute panic it inspires.
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.
Hate is an everlasting wellspring from which it is eternally sustained.
"Every creation carries a piece of its creators. Their knowledge, their dreams, their soul. That is the best part."
"You harbor such vast potential. It would be such a shame to let you die of old age." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Takedowns in Valor's Reach are never meant to be lethal, but that doesn't mean they won't be incredibly painful.
Silumgar trains those whom he favors in his magic, granting them the ability to spread his disdain across the land.
"Boggart blood disgusts me almost as much as the foul creatures themselves."
There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.
One of the many reasons why open-air markets close at dusk.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
When Selesnya missionaries moved into the Shanav Quarter, they faced scorn, ridicule, and ultimately martyrdom.
"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide
Fblthp had always hated crowds.
The stadium tests more than just fighting skill. For example, swimming ability.
Say hello to your new friend.
With practice, the measurement of magic can lead to its mastery.
One glamer leads him far from home. The next washes away his memory that home was ever anywhere but at her side.
Progress comes at a price.
"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks." —Jace Beleren
"Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds." —Talrand, sky summoner
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
The people of the Sevick Isles have a unique understanding of the term "ominous clouds."
"It is fascinating to see how the people of this plane replicate magical techniques without a natural gift. Also frustrating." —Jace Beleren
A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.
"Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?"
"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover." —Talrand, sky summoner
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there." —Jori En, expedition leader
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.
"Some fates you can see coming for you, plain as day, and there's nothing you can do about them." —Callaphe the mariner
In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison.
"Many scales make the skin of a dragon." —Abzan wisdom
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
It glides over the landscape. It also happens to be one.
Aspiring to earn their place in the afterlife, acolytes train every day against those who fell short of that glory.
"You will be reimbursed for your donation." "The reimbursement is spiritual." —Temple signs
"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den." —Britta, midwife of Gatstaf
"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight." —Gideon Jura
"Loyalty guides me. Pride compels me. Anger sustains me. And the pay isn't bad."
"No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
A raptor will follow any order as long as that order is "hunt," "kill," or "go for the guts."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored." —Olgard of the Skiltfolk
"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."
"Even if I should die in the saddle, she will not let me fall to the ground." —Hypatia of the Winged Horse
The person who finishes a journey is rarely the same as the one who starts it.
"The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings." —Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"The blood of Dromoka and the blood of my veins are the same."
"There is elegance in all the Ojutai do—even their killing." —Kirada, Silumgar enforcer
The harmony of the glorious is a dirge to the wicked.
Bitter vengeance never glowed so bright nor sang so sweet.
From thrilling combat to unparalleled vistas, Valor's Reach has it all.
Skybridges from across Kylem converge at the grand stadium of Valor's Reach.
Ancient magic reshapes the stage into a variety of landscapes.
The view is rivaled only by the decadence of the decor.
No pilgrimage to Valor's Reach is complete without a stroll through its celebrated shopping district.
The favored noisemaker of goblins ever since the wardens cracked down on explosives.
The built-in obstacles force competitors to think three moves ahead.
"I like a quick victory. More time to celebrate."
Some train all their lives for a shot at the title. Some just get really, really lucky.
"I never give odds on my own fights. Unless, of course, you want to bet against me . . ."
She is adept at navigating the stadium's ever-changing landscape.
The oddsmakers hate him because every fight is a foregone conclusion. The crowd loves him for exactly the same reason.
Success at Valor's Reach requires not only individual skill but also the ability to merge that skill with a partner's.
Arena beasts are bred for flashiness and foul temper. An extra head addresses both requirements.
"Within this grove, you belong to me."
"Potions! Mana potions, health potions, energy potions—get your potions here!"
The stadium is well-stocked with hazards to force the action if combatants show too much caution.
"Punch 'em, kick 'em, bite 'em, beat 'em! Burn 'em all and we'll defeat 'em!"
There will always be a spot at Valor's Reach for headlong violence.
When the twin-spell bonus round begins, the crowd rises to its feet in anticipation of incredible combinations.
"Never get too attached to a weapon. You must allow a better one to find its way to you."
Brutality had never been so exquisite.
"Welcome to the winning team."
Some competitors fight for glory or money. Some just like hitting people.
The line between victory and defeat can be as slim as a razor's edge.
"I lead, destruction follows."
"There will be no secrets between us... like it or not."
"Well, who do we have here, Gorm?" "No one, Virtus. No one at all."
"Pathetic! I've heard more noise in a monastery. Let me hear you, Valor's Reach!"
The ring plays host to some combatants that the spectators love to hate.
Zndrsplt retired from officiating when she teamed up with Okaun, but she still knows the penalties better than anyone else.
Synchronized spell weaving is a difficult but rewarding skill to master.
Mages and warriors recruited from across Kylem display their skills at Valor's Reach.
Some spectators love an underdog, but others are just as happy to support a proven winner.
Every attack is a test of your defenses. Every hit marks the map of your defeat.
The wardens watch for illegal tactics and protect spectators from the occasional rogue fireball.
"Are you sure this is going to work?" asked Will. "No," said Rowan. "But if it does, it's going to be spectacular."
Plan for victory, or prepare for defeat.
A moment of distraction, a lifetime of regret.
Victories at Valor's Reach are broadcast via griffins in the sky above.
"Show them the light, my love." — Krav, the Unredeemed
The most sensational plays send everyone home breathless.
The competition is but one aspect of the spectacle.
"Big, wicked, and not too smart. Poor thing never stood a chance against us, dear." —Regna, to Krav
Many combatants at Valor's Reach wield glowing weapons to distract their enemies and delight the crowd.
"I see something special in you—a bright ember that yearns to dance among the stars."
"Get ready, son."
"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
2018 Europe Vintage Champion
2017 North American Legacy Champion
The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent.
Glaciers, torrential floods, and temporal disturbances came and went. The mountains yet stood, unchanged.
"From the volcanoes of Shiv to the Balduvian steppes, I have sought a worthy teacher. At last, I have found one."
"Don't worry, they won't bite. They much prefer setting people on fire." — Jaya Ballard, to Chandra
"Everywhere you look, this world is healing from its wounds. Aren't you ready to do the same?" — Jhoira, to Teferi
"Long ago, I enchanted an army of statues to guard Zhalfir. My homeland is gone, but its protectors remain." — Teferi
"My father will be happy to see you."
The Cabal soldier blinked and found day had become night, he had a face full of thistle seeds, and the old man was nowhere to be seen.
"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot." — Teferi
"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister." —"The Fall of the House of Vess"
"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers." —Jhoira
Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.
"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that." —Alene of Riverspan
The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.
The seat of Belzenlok's power, the Stronghold serves as the gathering place for the Cabal as their dark influence spreads from Urborg.
A missing piece in search of a puzzle.
"Truly understanding even one volume can be a life's work." —Naru Meha, master wizard
The portal opens not to the past, but from it. Those who step through discover an unimaginable future.
The trainers were a gift of gratitude from the wizards of Tolaria West to the knights of New Benalia for their aid during the Talas Incursion.
Like a cross between a spider and a spyglass, but friendlier.
"Sometimes the only difference between a martyr and a hero is a sword." —Captain Sisay, Memoirs
Benalish glazeplate is stained with salts from the Rift Era and enchanted to deflect blows.
"Light passing through a powerstone is refracted by eternity and colored by planar energy. I wonder how the world appeared through Urza's eyes?" — Teferi
"To the head of Archaeological Findings: The excavation schedule at dig site 93-beta must be revised. Part of the site has walked off." —Tolarian field dispatch
The Weatherlight can no longer planeshift, but it can traverse Dominaria with ease.
A moment in time made tangible, it has the power to realize epic visions.
It has witnessed history's most significant events, one incarnation after another.
"Urza's machines have a splendid habit of excavating themselves." — Rona, disciple of Gix
"You could say it was my pet project." —Jhoira
Ice may thaw, but malice never does.
It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them.
Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva.
Archaeologists depend on automatons inspired by their precious discoveries at Koilos to guard the excavations.
"The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them." —Karn
A Thran relic, it has spent ten thousand years doing absolutely nothing.
"Bring me an angel feather, and I will give you one death in return. There can be no turning back once the candle is lit." —Whisper, blood liturgist
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.
Neither its appearance nor its temperature varies as the years pass, an eternal testament to the forces that shaped Dominaria.
An ancient device recovered from a thawing glacier high in the Karplusan mountains.
"Nothing is too broken to mend."
"Yavimaya is one being — one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals — of which I am one part."
As Jhoira restored the Weatherlight, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member.
"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."
Centuries ago, five dragons conquered death to rule the living.
"For the lost and forgotten, I will keep watch."
"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed." —Multani
"Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title." — Arkol, Argivian scholar
As she took the wheel of the Weatherlight for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now.
"The future is my gift to Keld."
"I won't abandon the Weatherlight. My destiny is to serve at Jhoira's side. This 'illness' means I must trust my faith more and myself less."
The passionate intensity of the Ghitu tempered by the cool insight of Tolarian training.
"When their community grows cluttered, thallids begin a traditional bobbing dance, then trek out in all directions." — Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
The bower shuddered. The stillness broke. The scurf shifted, and a being emerged from the flowers and ferns.
The first law of Yavimaya is that guests may kill only to survive. As fires aren't needed in the warm weather, cutting trees for wood means death.
A living remnant of the Ice Age.
"Yavimaya is aware, but not always awake. You will know the difference when you see it. — Karn
One eye open to see the truth of the world. One eye covered to gaze at the goddess within.
"The identifying ornamental growths of alpha thallids may be hereditary, or catalyzed by some chemical signal." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
As the irrepressible power of a dormant Multani courses through Yavimaya, the forest passes judgment on travelers and natives alike. Only the fungus prospers.
Thallids herd saprolings from place to place in search of detritus to feed them.
"You can hear its tail thrashing from a mile away. Keep in mind that its jaws may already be half a mile closer." — Jenson Carthalion, Yavimaya exile
Llanowar elves conceal their ballistae in the upper canopy of the forest, ready to clear the skies of any intruder.
"As Argoth's last defenders fell to Urza's juggernauts, Titania said, 'Nature cannot be destroyed, only changed.'" —The Antiquities War
Midwife to mothers and leader to all.
Most spiders of Llanowar disdain elvish alliances. No elf has as many beautiful eyes or as many strong arms.
Llanowar elfhames occupy different heights within the great forest. Elves of the Loridalh and Kelfae hames can see neither earth nor sky.
"Cherish this world in honor of the martyrs who saved it. We too must be prepared to give our lives." — The Mending of Dominaria
As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature.
"Druids endure disaster as seeds endure winter. Now Krosa blooms once more."
Centuries ago, a barbarian laid his rage to rest.
Fallen Phyrexians were transmuted into elementals by Gaea long ago, but Yavimaya's other inhabitants still regard them with unease.
Thallids nurture saprolings, entertain them, and eat them.
The bond between Llanowar elves and their kavu empowers both.
Nothing tastes finer to an ooze than a priceless family heirloom.
"I can't bear to see another plane broken before I make my own home whole. I'm sorry, but my watch is over."
A baloth only cares about the many things it eats and the few things that eat it.
"Llanowar's boughs are ever ready To unleash an autumn of steel leaves." —"Song of Freyalise"
Multani's mind grasped for consciousness as rage itself rebuilt his body.
Every odyssey begins with a single step.
"The study of magic began when the first mage taught herself to throw lightning." —Naban, dean of iteration
"The old ways were for a winter world. We do what's best for us, not for the past. We are Keldons!" — Grand Warlord Radha
War begins with one red ember.
The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens.
He watches the pass in both directions, and all must pay his toll.
"You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps."
It skitters across the Shiv, each tendril hitting the ground with a sharp snap.
Deep beneath the ruined continent of Otaria, there's a mine where goblins still work, ignorant of the destruction above.
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
Sometimes Shivan dragons toy with their food. Other times they just cook it.
"Shiv is a restless land. It heaves ash, bleeds lava, and scabs over in black obsidian." — The First Eruption
Keld faced an apocalypse to fulfill a dire prophecy. Now Keldons have nothing left to believe in except themselves.
Keldon warriors take advantage of the cyclops's inability to focus on more than one thing at a time.
As the Cabal legions pushed into Shiv, they learned not to stand so close together.
Every ancient relic is a weapon if you throw it hard enough.
"The Mountain gave us the Flame to Kradak to light the furnaces of his people's hearts. The wanderers became Keldons, and he the first warlord." — "The Flame of Keld"
Keldon raiders' spoils are limited to what their colos can carry. No matter the value, the rest goes up in smoke.
Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration.
Not since the days of Pashalik Mons have the Rundvelt goblins been so united or effective.
"The trick is, once you get moving, don't stop!"
Tolarians teach the theory of pyromancy. The Ghitu prefer applied research.
The Ghitu of Shiv are as fierce and uncompromising as their volcanic home.
"What fire forged, fire remembers."
"The heat in our hearts sometimes rises to the surface." — Valduk, keeper of the Flame.
The versatile "fiery gauntlet" is among the first spells young Ghitu mages learn.
"The best way to learn from a book on pyromancy is to burn it." —Jaya Ballard
Burning something is easy. Choosing a target can be more difficult.
"The flame paints a bright wheel on the sky, then shifts into a stabbing spark. The enemy falls; the smoke of victory rises. — "Legends of the Firedancer"
Grand Warlord Radha's challengers are always defeated, but she rewards the most passionate with the Flame of Keld. After that, they burn for her.
The stone whispers tales of darkness and fire. She replies, "Tell me more."
Centuries ago, a mad god offered a simple trade.
When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body.
Acolytes of the lost Lord Windgrace fight to keep Urborg relics out of Cabal hands.
"Look how they beg for the knife! The Demonlord has trained them well."
As the phantom flies overhead, the city of Vhelnish screams in silence.
Some of the thallids that escaped into the fens of Urborg began emulating the Cabal's bloodsoaked rituals in their own peculiar way.
Thelon of Havenwood created thallids as a food source in times of darkness. Thallids did the same with saprolings.
The first mistake the Grimnant knights made was bullying the owner of an Urborg corpse shop. Their second mistake was dying.
"You bound me with a contract only your death could end—and you thought me the fool?" —Liliana Vess
Wreckage from the Phyrexian Invasion provided the rats with a seemingly unlimited number of breeding grounds.
"True power never dies, but lies awake, waiting for its name to be spoken." — The Eldest Reborn
A shadow to swallow the light.
To thallids, the whole world is just a pile of mulch to grow saprolings in.
"Sleep now, brother. That is the one gift I can give you." —Liliana Vess
"Urborg used to be lovely—scenic volcanoes, respectable lich lords. Since the Cabal came with their nightmares and thrulls, it's all gone to the worms." —Mister Lostspoons, Skulltown gossip.
"Fear the dark if you must, but don't mistake sunlight for safety." —Josu Vess
The Cabal assured the Seven Houses that hostages receive all the food and rest they require.
"The forest surrounding the Vess estate became the Caligo Morass, a vast bog stalked by horrors too terrible to name." — "The Fall of the House of Vess"
Flittersprites collect unusually valuable things: coins of fallen empires, baby teeth, and memories of treasured names.
In the Cabal, death is just another mark of devotion.
"Nature is not always gentle or kind, but all life begets life." —Marwyn of Llanowar
"I have pustules of the great Ratadrabik, very cheap. No? Surely you'll want a tincture of Nevinyrral's pulverized remains. Genuine!"
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed." — Chainer's Torment
"Take their faces. The lips of these unbelievers may yet honor the Demonlord."
"The Demonlord has ruled every age. Every ruin, myth, and nightmare proves his power." — "Rite of Belzenlok"
"All hail the Demonlord Belzenlok, Evincar of the Stronghold, Scion of Darkness, Doom of Fools, Lord of the Wastes, Master of the Ebon Hand, Eternal Patriarch of the Cabal . . ."
"My heart is not mine, it is Belzenlok's. All hearts are his, and all blood." —"Rite of Belzenlok"
"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
"The second mage learned to dissipate blasts of lightning. Threat and response: thus did the study of magic progress." —Naban, dean of iteration
In lives that have stretched for centuries, there are bound to be a few awkward silences.
The Vodalian Empire tends to be insular. The scholarly Volshe caste are the exception, using education as an antidote to xenophobia.
"A problem is only a problem if you don't have the tools to correct it." —Jhoira
The Tolarian Academies embrace a tradition of study and research while discouraging the kinds of experiments that ruined the original island of Tolaria.
"My ancestor Toshiro used to say, 'Life is a series of choices between bad and worse.' I'm a master of making great bad choices."
The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea.
The fire spell stuttered and broke. Its pieces reached Teferi out of rhythm, meaningless.
Though it was laid to waste by the brothers, many schools of magic trace their origins to the College of Lat-Nam, including the first Tolarian Academy.
With just a few seconds to escape, Deryan saved Hurkyl's editions on restoring physical objects from ash.
Her knack for tampering with wards got her kicked out of the academy, but they also got her back in.
The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?
"Perfect. Now do it again."
Saved from destruction by one planeswalker's sacrifice, the Eliterate colony forswore the taking of life.
Centuries ago, a quest to harness time became a spiral into chaos.
"Your contract is in default. You belong to me now. Serve, or die." — Nicol Bolas
"Homarids spread northward from Sarpadia as the climate cooled, raiding coastal settlements for supplies." — Time of Ice
"Half of your studies will be learning the laws of magic. The other half will be bending them." —Naru Meha, master wizard
Archaeologists don't just dig in the dirt. They excavate time, scraping off the years grain by grain.
For cryomancers, studying the Ice Age isn't just an academic exercise.
For generations, the inhabitants of Orvada have hungered for turtle soup. For generations, the turtles have frustrated their ambitions.
"The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still. I learned that from Radha." –Jhoira
The Tolarian Academies are known for their magical research, powerful sorcerers, and accidental destruction of ecosystems.
"We don't choose who comes here. We choose how long they stay."
Centuries ago, one man's vengeance plunged the world into ice and darkness.
"In a healing world I write—I, who will never be healed. Let my last gift be one of memory: from a thousand lost thoughts, choose one, and remember my name."
"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."
Theologians now believe the Ancestor was another divine form of Serra.
The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages.
Knights get the glory. Soldiers get things done.
An ancient nemesis rendered harmless long ago.
"When history becomes too mournful, even good souls may choose to forget." — Shalai, voice of Plenty.
A pegasus chooses its rider, bearing the worthy into the clouds and tossing all others to the ground.
"The spirit of Serra raised Brindri high and commanded her to keep the balance." —Song of All, canto 524
The unicorns of Sursi are a manifestation of Serra's joy and compassion. They frolic and dance like children, offering blessings to anyone they encounter.
"You are not alone. You never were."
Descendant of a vanished land, student of a forgotten general, and master of blades no smith could forge anew. He honors them all by living a life worthy of song.
The mage-smiths of New Benalia have perfected the art of blending fine steel and enchanted glass into weapons that are both beautiful and deadly. Only elite knights are entrusted with these martial works of art.
A light to pierce the shadows.
"Let go of all that harms you. Cast your burdens into the darkness, and build for the faithful a house of light." —Song of All, canto 1008
"Whatever faith you have in Serra, she has more in you." —Lyra Dawnbringer
On Amonkhet, Gideon lost both his sural and his faith in himself. But he can still throw a punch, and he still knows a bad guy when he sees one.
"Light from the Null Moon took form—a mirage made real, alone in grandeur, isolated in a world that once had been its own." —Fall of the Thran
"Rise, knight of New Benalia."
The Benalish aristocracy is hereditary, but the loyalty of its subjects is earned.
"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."
"Go swiftly, clever arrow, and teach The philosophy of stillness." —D'Avenant verse
"Honor rides before us. All we have to do is catch up." —Danitha Capashen
Benalish citizens born under the same constellations share a star-clan. Their loyalty to one another interlaces the Seven Houses.
A new gathering for a new age.
Enchanted by mage-smiths and blessed by priests, Benalish windows let in light and cast out darkness.
"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars." —History of Benalia
"The true measure of all heroes is not what they achieve, but who they inspire." —Triumph of Gerrard
"The walls of Argive were built by a peaceful dynastic union that has guarded us against war for fifteen centuries. The lesson is clear."
"My flock flew from a distant continent ruined by cataclysm and war. Benalia gave us shelter to end our exodus."
The shield took a year to craft, a month to enchant, and a decade to master—all for one glorious moment.
"The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot." — Teferi
"They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister." —"The Fall of the House of Vess"
"We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers." —Jhoira
Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches.
"Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that." —Alene of Riverspan
The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings.
The seat of Belzenlok's power, the Stronghold serves as the gathering place for the Cabal as their dark influence spreads from Urborg.
The portal opens not to the past, but from it. Those who step through discover an unimaginable future.
A moment in time made tangible, it has the power to realize epic visions.
It has witnessed history's most significant events, one incarnation after another.
Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva.
"The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them." —Karn
It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's.
"Nothing is too broken to mend."
"Yavimaya is one being — one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals — of which I am one part."
As Jhoira restored the Weatherlight, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member.
"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."
"I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life."
Centuries ago, five dragons conquered death to rule the living.
"For the lost and forgotten, I will keep watch."
"My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed." — Multani
"Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title." — Arkol, Argivian scholar
As she took the wheel of the Weatherlight for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now.
"The future is my gift to Keld."
"I won't abandon the Weatherlight. My destiny is to serve at Jhoira's side. This 'illness' means I must trust my faith more and myself less."
The passionate intensity of the Ghitu tempered by the cool insight of Tolarian training.
The bower shuddered. The stillness broke. The scurf shifted, and a being emerged from the flowers and ferns.
A living remnant of the Ice Age.
"Yavimaya is aware, but not always awake. You will know the difference when you see it. — Karn
One eye open to see the truth of the world. One eye covered to gaze at the goddess within.
Midwife to mothers and leader to all.
Centuries ago, a barbarian laid his rage to rest.
The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens.
He watches the pass in both directions, and all must pay his toll.
"You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps."
"Ready . . . uh . . . fire!"
Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration.
"The trick is, once you get moving, don't stop!"
Centuries ago, a mad god offered a simple trade.
When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body.
"Look how they beg for the knife! The Demonlord has trained them well."
As the phantom flies overhead, the city of Vhelnish screams in silence.
"The forest surrounding the Vess estate became the Caligo Morass, a vast bog stalked by horrors too terrible to name." — "The Fall of the House of Vess"
"Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed." — Chainer's Torment
"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
"I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end."
"My ancestor Toshiro used to say, 'Life is a series of choices between bad and worse.' I'm a master of making great bad choices."
The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea.
The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse?
"Perfect. Now do it again."
Centuries ago, a quest to harness time became a spiral into chaos.
Centuries ago, one man's vengeance plunged the world into ice and darkness.
"The Ancestor saved us for a purpose."
"You are not alone. You never were."
Descendant of a vanished land, student of a forgotten general, and master of blades no smith could forge anew. He honors them all by living a life worthy of song.
"Light from the Null Moon took form—a mirage made real, alone in grandeur, isolated in a world that once had been its own." —Fall of the Thran
"I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less."
"Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars." —History of Benalia
"The walls of Argive were built by a peaceful dynastic union that has guarded us against war for fifteen centuries. The lesson is clear."
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed." —Koth of the Hammer
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
Voyager staffs are sought by those hoping to find an escape from the sprawling glut of Ravnica.
A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness.
"Melt that which was never frozen." —Spellbomb inscription
All the curiosity of the Neurok with only a trace of their duplicity.
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"Our glorious infection has taken hold." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!" —Chammi, curio vendor
If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever." —Koth of the Hammer
It's wise not to disturb an artist at work.
"The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames." —Pia Nalaar
From trinket to trauma.
The metal must be pure. The hand must be steady. The product must be perfect.
The elves had devised countless strategies to combat Memnarch's war machines, but they had no idea what to do when one was thrown at them.
"The tools of the past will help us forge the future."
The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath.
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
The artificers of Kaladesh strive ceaselessly for perfection, progress, and the ultimate expression of elegance.
"I can call an army to my side in the blink of an eye. Best not blink."
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us." —The Invokers' Tales
She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.
The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty.
"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence.
Many elves incorporate the beauty of nature into their inventions. Very few capture its savagery.
The remains of ancient civilizations litter the run-down land.
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
Every leaf, tree, and building in Kujar has been placed to achieve maximum harmony, in accordance with the elvish philosophy known as the Great Conduit.
"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."
Eyes and arrows trained ever skyward.
"Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all."
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest." —Nissa Revane
"How do the vinebred feel? Fah! We do not ask the puppet how it feels when the puppeteer bids it dance."
"The elves tend the forest, and the forest sustains the elves. My role is to ensure that the cycle continues."
Call one, call them all.
"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."
Great hero or grand betrayer? The truth of Ezuri's legacy is clouded by the fog of legend.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory.
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
"Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed." —Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo
A ghoulcaller's playground.
At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents.
"Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity." —Talara, elvish safewright
Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"Even if we defeat it, what remains to be saved?" —Glissa Sunseeker
Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
It sees itself in all of its creations.
The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new.
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.
"When I said I needed a hand, I didn't mean this." —Gerrard Capashen
With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."
Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
"Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery."
"(Z–>)90º – (E–N²W)90ºt = 1"
Dominaria's most ancient evil.
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales." —Ranalus, vedalken heretic
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
Tribal rivalries and petty disputes were laid aside at Eladamri's summons.
After years of world-bending machinations, Bolas's triumph is at hand.
All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.
Boggarts and disturbing bits of boggarts flew through the air with alarming and untidy regularity.
While the smell of burning flesh is common in Grixis, the odor of smoldering brain matter is a rare treat.
"Humans use pigs to hunt for mushrooms, don't they? It's like that." —Harak, Malakir bloodwitch
Even among the hardiest warriors of the Temur, loxodons are respected for their adaptation to the mountain snows.
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us." —The Invokers' Tales
The executioner's tree in Thraben Cathedral holds the power to absolve more than the souls of the hanged.
"The need for the pack is bred in their bones. Their true strength will not show itself for any other purpose." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"The thunder of hooves is music to my ears."
Hatred outlives the hateful.
"Meat and eggs. We eat!" —Borborygmos
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
Though Shadowmoor's monster-haunted wilds beckon, she never leaves her post.
The clamor of war ceased as both armies stood and marveled at the beauty of Gaea's work.
The best wishes include the will to tame their consequences.
When it walked, it altered geography. When it bellowed, it changed the weather.
In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy.
The kavu might be above you —Llanowar expression meaning "keep an open mind"
"Only the most effective tactics stand the test of time." —Gamelen, Citanul elder
No matter the timeline, some legends will endure.
"Each night, the sun unravels and blows away. Each day, the spiders set a new one in the sky." —Sunseeder myth
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
"A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be."
"It's right to fear those that you keep locked away." —Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
The sound of its plated tail beating on desert rocks is often mistaken for the footfalls of a much larger predator.
"Proximity discouraged. Do not approach." —Vulshok field guide
When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
Fire burns away both flesh and freedom.
"It's rarely worth questioning where the mana comes from. Just be grateful." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
Nothing restrains a burning passion.
Its growl is the crackling and popping of a wildfire untamed.
"The embers of our homes still smolder, and already the villages of Kjeldor burn in retaliation. What they have started, we will finish." —Lovisa Coldeyes
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.
A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies.
"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind." —Houn, Jeskai elder
"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests." —Mardu threat
Their eardrums may have given out, but the rest of them never will.
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.
Xenagos reveled while Theros burned.
"We wield the fires of rage. War is our blood and destruction our birthright." —Crimson creed
Any pyromancer can summon fire with a thought. The trick is putting it out.
Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."
"Even the threat of power has power." —Jeska, warrior adept
The most frightening storms are those not woven by nature's hand.
"We earn no medals and fight for no titles. Blood is proof of our victory." —Lovisa Coldeyes
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now that's dangerous."
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it." —Mystic elder
"On dark nights you can still see the light of the Vess girl's lantern out in the Caligo, seeking her lost brother. Those who follow are doomed to join her endless search." —"The Fall of the House of Vess"
The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
No matter how deep you bury it, some evil refuses to stay dead.
The Cabal loves encores.
"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity." —Senifet, vizier of Bontu
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
They lived in different nations and fought in different eras, but as the Returned, they link arms as one.
Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.
An ogre's poisonous stench is like fine Kashkaval cheese to the noses lowest to the ground.
"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy." —Keld Triumphant
"Behold blessed perfection." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
"The nezumi will do things for money no other thinking creature would consider. This, of course, makes them useful beyond words." —Meloku the Clouded Mirror
"No matter how busy my schedule gets, I always try to take time for that personal touch." —Queen Marchesa
Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.
No mortal could atone for Ihsan's betrayal. Redemption required him to become something else.
It feeds on dry bones in the sand and desperate pleas in the wind.
"The rules are clear. If you want to leave, you need only convince another to take your place."
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
Their skills are extensive, and their appetite for battle just as vast.
Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun.
"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."
Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky.
The spite of the Cabal turns meadow into mire.
It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
"True strength is in the mind, for the body is too malleable a form." —Politus, vedalken emisar
Fblthp had always hated crowds.
"Twice I have let the Legacy slip away. Never again." —Karn, silver golem
Where the geometries of the world collapse, a master of the aether can harvest power beyond comprehending.
"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all." —Pol Jamaar, illusionist
Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.
"There are no obstacles, only different paths."
Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying.
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"You can become anything if I just put my mind to it."
In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note.
Going down with the ship is just the beginning.
When a strong mind moves, form and energy shift to heed it.
No tactic transforms a battle like a well-timed carnivore.
"Terrifying, but thankfully temporary." —Teferi
"Of all the things that can be stolen, opportunity is the most valuable."
All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there." —Jori En, expedition leader
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.
"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it." —Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
Nothing escapes a sharp mind.
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you." —Takara, to Eladamri
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
There's no stronger armor than the bravery of those beside you.
"Guilds be damned. We can fend for ourselves." —Vennick of the Gateless
"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."
"One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable." —Benalish proverb
Some corpses the Golgari cannot claim. Some souls the Orzhov cannot shackle.
Skepticism fades in the face of the miraculous.
"I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring."
As Hedrax stepped into oblivion, he welcomed the unwavering silence.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
The gods are fascinated by innocence, perhaps because it's a quality they themselves lack.
"A boon from the angels should never be cast aside." —Manfried Ulmach, Chief Inquisitor
His watch ends only when he does.
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again."
The Order of the Skyward Eye does the bidding of an evil force, unwittingly stirring fear and mistrust across Bant in accordance with his plans.
The drums of war stir the hearts of all who fight for righteousness.
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
"The battle is won. There's work to be done. / The Blessed Sleep must wait. / A fiend is about. It stalks the devout. / I'll save them from my fate." —"The Good Geist's Vow"
His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
"The tools of evil are mere things. And like all things, they cannot last forever." —Song of All, canto 881
"The harder they try to extinguish my faith, the brighter it burns in the darkness."
"With his dream of unification fulfilled, Darien became the last king of Kjeldor. Those who followed were known as the kings of New Argive." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
"Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn." —Elder Rimheit
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."
"On every plane, there are those who run toward danger." —Gideon Jura
The storm rages and the earth breaks.
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?" —Admiral Beckett Brass
Once you have ascended to the highest temple of Orazca, the power of the Immortal Sun is yours to wield forever.
The Sun Empire bends nature—rivers, mountainsides, dinosaurs—to its unyielding will.
Made to ward off the Grim Captain and silence the lure of undeath.
"The fools have done it." —Tishana
To a siegehorn, there is no such thing as a dead end.
Imitation is the sincerest form of piracy.
Her centuries-long search is ended.
"The Great River will not be tamed."
An innumerable pack is concealed in a single reflection.
The earth walks, strongest of all.
"You think I stand alone? I have the forest at my call, the waters at my back. I outnumber you."
"Control them? No. I gird them in armor and let them loose." —Yacha, Otepec huntmaster
The storm rages and the earth breaks.
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?" —Admiral Beckett Brass
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?" —Admiral Beckett Brass
As the struggle raged for control of the Immortal Sun, the world grew dark under a blood-red sky.
Another piece of a nefarious puzzle.
"Drench these golden streets in the blood of our enemies."
Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed.
"Here and gone like a fleeting breeze."
Possession is eleven-tenths of the pirate code.
"Damn the cannons, mates. Charge!"
The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.
"I would advise you not to struggle." —Huatli
"Kinjalli sculpted humans from clay, but the dinosaurs were carved from unyielding stone." —Itzama the Crested
"Be still." —Azor
"Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing." —Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan
For every wound there is a blessing; for every death, a reckoning.
"Burn their fleet to the waterline, and sink whatever's left." —Angrath
Though small, goblins can hold their own in a fight. Foolhardy confidence goes a long way.
Orcs have been enemies of the Legion of Dusk since it was formed, and the entire race has been declared anathema.
Abandoning both queen and church, he chose to follow power.
"These pirates must answer for their ancestors, who renounced the Church of Dusk and sailed from Torrezon as heretics."
Countless streams flow into the nine rivers, and the nine rivers flow into the Great River. The River Heralds guard them all.
The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth.
"A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah." —Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab
The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors.
In the galleon's grand cathedral, conquistadors swore vows of faith. In its wreckage, they swore vows of revenge.
The Sun Empire bends nature—rivers, mountainsides, dinosaurs—to its unyielding will.
"The best kind of treasure is the kind that leads to more treasure!" —Captain Lannery Storm
"Because the giant, implacable death lizard wasn't scary enough already." —Captain Brinely Rage
Made to ward off the Grim Captain and silence the lure of undeath.
"Gold without freedom might as well be lead." —Angrath
"The fools have done it." —Tishana
"Charge like a red-hot cannonball straight to your target. You slow down, you sink." —Captain Lannery Storm
To a siegehorn, there is no such thing as a dead end.
As the battle for Orazca unfolded, the contenders discovered that others had already staked a claim.
Its breath is a gale. Its roar is a volcano. Its anger tears soul from flesh.
Imitation is the sincerest form of piracy.
"The mist clothes us when we are bare, hides us when we are alone, and unites us when we are together." —Nirit of Pashona's band
"We long ago abandoned the things that make humans weak: friendship, marriage, family. All that remains is the strength of our devotion."
"You cannot kill it, not for long. It ripens where the ground is soaked with the blood of the slaughtered." —Atiuru, priest of the Verdant Sun
Her centuries-long search is ended.
The buccaneers scaled the sides of buildings as easily as they boarded enemy ships.
Streams of gold and bright feathers flash in the orb, visions of past and future.
"The Great River will not be tamed."
The herds follow as new growth arises.
It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself.
A warning shout would take too long.
The pack that ambushes, eviscerates, and devours together stays together.
An innumerable pack is concealed in a single reflection.
"Still, the pterodon chasing the clouds from its skies must bow to the great forest below." —Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer
It embodies the riotous growth of the jungle, where creatures crowd upon creatures, where roots sprawl and vines swarm.
The frillbacks of Orazca soak up the sun on their tall spinal fins. They look slow and sleepy—until they catch the scent of prey.
"Better to let the sword go than to lose the arm with it." —Captain Lannery Storm
"My whisper becomes a thousand roars."
"We fought so long to hide this place. Let us be first to learn its wonders!"
"A blade is not fully forged until it is given."
"Sisora wore this, who defeated the tyrant of Azcanta, and before her Natena of Vuhana's band. May it bring you their strength."
"Death lizard approaching, cap'n!" —Brint Doobin, last words
For the Sun Empire, the Immortal Sun is a symbol of national identity. When they reclaim it, the Empire will flourish once more.
"The only gold I need is the sheltering shimmer of the trees."
The earth walks, strongest of all.
"You think I stand alone? I have the forest at my call, the waters at my back. I outnumber you."
"Our survival, like theirs, depends on our ability to work together." —Huatli, to Tishana
"Remember when it was the most terrifying thing you'd ever seen?" —Captain Lannery Storm
Despite its appearance, it's anything but defenseless.
When a cacophodon is angry, the whole jungle knows.
"Our lives, our homes, and all our history are at risk. Do not speak to me of peace."
"I'm about to make you famous. From the golden city to High and Dry, they'll talk about how fast you died!"
"With Tilonalli's gifts, even the smallest of us can become great." —Huatli
"A bolt to the eye, a blade to the neck. That's the way to clear the deck!"
When the golden city opened, the dinosaurs inside were eager to greet the new visitors.
"Control them? No. I gird them in armor and let them loose." —Yacha, Otepec huntmaster
Today it's a miracle of architecture, a marvel of stained glass, a symbol of the Legion's power. Tomorrow, driftwood.
A threefold calamity with a single will.
"Hard to starboard! Starb— Abandon ship! Abandon ship!"
Goblins can carry their body weight in loot.
"If you come across a raptor in the city, stay perfectly still. At least then you'll be well rested when you die." —Captain Brandis Thorn
It hatches with its ferocity fully grown.
Pirate captains rarely enjoy a peaceful retirement.
"Why are we following the goblin? Can he even read that map?" —Daphne Vail, Diremore first mate
Nothing says trouble like a reedy hiss with a hint of liquid gurgle.
"The Brazen Coalition is a firecannon pointed at our enemies. Goblins like him are the spark to its powder." —Admiral Beckett Brass
The storm rages and the earth breaks.
No ancient lore ties the pirates of the Brazen Coalition to the Immortal Sun. But it's a powerful ancient artifact in a city of gold—what's not to covet?
It doesn't hold grudges. It runs them down and impales them.
Never underestimate the power of panache.
Finders, keepers.
"Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?" —Admiral Beckett Brass
"Want to sink a ship? Blow a hole in the hull. Want to kill a regisaur? Same answer." —Captain Brandis Thorn
As the struggle raged for control of the Immortal Sun, the world grew dark under a blood-red sky.
The purest devotion isn't the Blood Fast itself, but the craving that follows.
"A thick fog obscures the port of Leor, but it's not thick enough to muffle the screams." —Admiral Beckett Brass
"I will catch you, child of the sun. I will drink your life and leave you a husk, discarded in the shadows."
"No more fear of death's oblivion—is this not the greatest treasure of all?" —Gurezan, Legion resurrectionist
Onora knew with sudden, grim certainty he would never see the Great River again.
Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun.
"Shame to let good gold go to the grave."
"My conquistadors are never slain, merely laid to rest." —Queen Miralda the Pious
"The time of condemnation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and I consign you to eternal darkness!"
Another piece of a nefarious puzzle.
Never let the glitter of gold distract you from the gleam of steel in the shadows.
"You were keen enough to sink your fangs into us, vampire! And now you're afraid of a few little nibbles?" —Udvil "Ratty" Ratlock
"I can hear the plunder calling. It asks for me by name."
Without frequent raids, orcs sometimes get bored and plunder their own ships.
Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun.
Stories say demon blood runs in its veins, making it fearless and bloodthirsty.
"Aye, the foul beast chomped me, but I got away. You'd best believe when I find it again, it won't get away so easy."
"Your mind is no longer yours to waste."
"Drench these golden streets in the blood of our enemies."
The first goblin tried to swim the canal. The second built a raft. The last and craftiest goblin launched herself from a firecannon and soared over the canal, trailing smoke. All were eaten, but only one was cooked.
"It is impious to admit, but I do enjoy pirate blood. Something in the salty tang of it, the spice of rebellion."
For the River Heralds, the Immortal Sun is an object of terror and devastation. The idea that anyone would retrieve it for their own use is utterly abhorrent.
With Kumena in control of the Immortal Sun, the rapids rose from their riverbeds and the waterfalls took flight.
"I'd rather be caught red-handed than leave empty-handed!"
"Prepare to be boarded."
"If you keep to the shallows, you'll never learn the secrets of the depths."
Stolen knowledge can never be stolen back.
Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed.
"When the waves pick up, either you find your feet or you lose your lunch."
The rising tide of Orazca's plunder lifted all ships.
"Time flows as the rivers do, toward an unknown sea. The wise know to look downstream."
"Don't make splashes. Make progress." —Tishana
"Here and gone like a fleeting breeze."
"As one, nature lifts its voice to tell you this: 'No.'"
With matchless stealth, the River Heralds fought a running battle against the three enemy forces.
"Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?"
Being a merciful pirate, she saved the vampire's gold from falling overboard.
Jace tumbled down the waterfall and plunged deep into his past.
"Up you go, you soggy rat."
Possession is eleven-tenths of the pirate code.
"Damn the cannons, mates. Charge!"
The sky takes flight and the earth trembles.
"I would advise you not to struggle." —Huatli
"Kinjalli sculpted humans from clay, but the dinosaurs were carved from unyielding stone." —Itzama the Crested
"Pterodons tolerate no intrusion into their skies. Even the clouds must ask permission." —Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer
"I will not sleep until Orazca is ours once more."
"Be still." —Azor
They're fun to train—if you like stubborn, aggressive, and fiercely territorial.
"Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing." —Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan
"I was born to glory."
For the Legion of Dusk, the Immortal Sun is a source of eternal life. When they reclaim it, they will no longer be forced to subsist on the blood of the wicked.
The abundance of foes in Orazca means the raptors no longer need any orders.
For every wound there is a blessing; for every death, a reckoning.
"The time of salvation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and the Legion will rise immortal!"
"Should I fall, take up our standard and carry on. The Legion must always prevail."
"Its rise is like the sun's, a beautiful beginning. Its descent is like the sun's, a frightful ending." —Huatli
"Your part in this fight is done, vampire. Get used to your thirst."
The Legion of Dusk sailed from Torrezon in search of glory, riches, and the Immortal Sun.
"The music of blades against its silver armor merely inspires it to bellow more full-throated melodies." —Huatli
Loyal to his queen, slave to his thirst.
"We have come at last to this holiest of holy places. What was stolen from us long ago is ours once again."
"Undefeated in battle, she is the shining future our empire deserves." —Huatli
Cunning warriors and dim-witted beasts alike fall under the church's harsh judgment.
"The sun creates, sustains, and consumes so it can create again." —Caparocti Sunborn
"No shadow remains for you to hide in." —Caparocti Sunborn
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
Some worlds possess a hidden core where life's essence constantly surges.
Every predator is something else's prey.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"Someday, when the world is safe again, my homeland will return." —Teferi
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."
"I can tell you what you wish to know. But first, there is the matter of my fee."
A rare find, suitable for the most discerning collector.
Shopping List Lamp-hand attachment X-ray contact lenses Discount death ray Two-headed hammer Kitten-fish
"WARNING: Do not feed the rhinopus." —Crossbreed Labs campus advisory
For the Goblin Explosioneers, there's no crater like home.
The League of Dastardly Doom takes the word "headquarters" very seriously.
The location of S.N.E.A.K. HQ is a closely guarded secret.
The Order of the Widget doesn't believe in traveling light.
Q: Where does a mechanical squirrel hide its nuts? A: In a bolt hole.
A truly symbolic advantage.
A symbol of _________ in _________ times.
"When it comes down to it, science is more art than science."
"Time for you to meet the brains of this operation!" —The Big Idea
Krark was the kind of goblin who'd lose his thumb in a wager and come right back with "Double or nothing!"
"Just relax—I brought in a substitute."
Early testing failed because the clones were all thumbs.
"click...whirrrr...beep...click!"
"click...click...beep...whirrr..."
"click...click...whirrrr...beep."
"whirrrr . . . beep . . . click . . . click?"
Common side effects include headaches, ringing in ears, and excessive smithereens. In some cases, a small hole in space-time may develop.
"Cogs on cats / Cogs on dogs / Cogs on hats / And cogs on cogs." —Song of the Cogmentor
"Perhaps you believe, even in these final moments, that you will be saved. But doom has no snooze button, you fools!" —Baron Von Count
This space intentionally left blank.
It's not a carpet moth, it's a feature.
It's more like a hard day of lunch with a work break between shifts.
"You see that sheen on the fur? The glint in their eyes? Top quality. These are the real deal."
"Be sure to get the tree in the picture."
It smarts more than the average bear.
chitty-chitty-BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG!
"Hallowed be this potpourri of sundry goods!"
"Hallowed be this gathering of eclectic products!"
"Hallowed be this collection of miscellaneous items!"
"Hallowed be this compilation of mixed objects!"
"Hallowed be this assortment of diverse things!"
"Hallowed be this assemblage of various stuff!"
Less housebroken than housebreaking.
People came from miles away just to see the head of the hammer.
Picking hammers is dangerous, but it's still safer than harvesting saw bushes.
Others try to be the best in their class. She strives to be the best in her phylum.
At Crossbreed Labs, "heads or tails" has nothing to do with coins.
One fateful night, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, they rose.
"Not a surprise to see her on the podium. This paragon of tusk curvature is just the latest addition to the long championship lineage of Wildspeaker Ranch."
"Something really special in the baloth category this season, in the terms of spike density and quality. We'd like to get a word with the handler, but are unable to locate her at this time."
"We've not seen one of these on the podium for many seasons. Such magnificent posture and the perfect amount of telltale odor."
"A stunning example of the breed! Flawless plating, ruthlessly efficient death stroke, and an excellent drool shimmer."
Goblin innovator, goblin corpse. Tomayto, tomahto.
Ig and Burf discovered the technique by accident when Burf reached for his hammer and missed.
It's true that two heads are better than one, but after that you run into diminishing returns.
"Not again!"
"Not again!"
"Not again!"
"Not again!"
"Comin' through!"
Goblins only have two speeds: hard loaf and full-on hammer freak-out.
When you're dumber than a hammer, every problem looks like one of those things you hit with a hammer.
The perks aren't great.
"Don't quit now, we're almost done. Then we'll build another one!"
No rest. No mercy. No reservations.
"You're about to be struck by a brilliant idea!"
"It's time to put the 'die' in 'diameter!'" —Flaky the Irrational
"Give me . . . some skin."
It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says,
It's less "music" and more "straightforward hearing damage."
"Need a hammer? Gotta get your fix? I know a guy."
An accessory in every sense of the word.
Skrab tried to warn his fellow goblins that the hammer was bait for a trap, but they stopped listening at "hammer."
Martha was in and out in exactly two minutes—thirty seconds to administer the poison plus a minute and a half to properly refold the napkins.
A mook's life span is just long enough to get just good enough to get careless.
Lucinda didn't know which she enjoyed most: the science, the squirrels, or the maniacal laughter.
"Just wait—I have a response."
"In this line of work, you've got to know how to squirrel things away. Quite literally, in my case."
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K — Subpar, Notoriously Evil Agent Killers.
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K — Spies Nimbly Eluding Adversaries' Knives.
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Skilled, Notably Efficient Assassin-Kickers.
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Sinister Nerds Eliminating All Knowledge.
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K — Silent Ninjas Evading Any Kapture
The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Serious, Nonstop Espionage and Kidnapping.
No body is ready for this kind of power.
By the fourth funeral, the mooks had gotten pretty good at them.
Saw her coming. Didn't matter.
"Stalking hard or hardly stalking, am I right?"
For the mind-minded mastermind.
Zarv no longer trusted the kitten posters telling him to "hang in there."
The S.N.E.A.K. Code clearly permits looting corpses for parts. That just meant Agent 47.3 had to make sure her target was dead first.
. . . nnnnnsssss!
. . . iiiiinnnn . . .
. . . aaaaaaiiii . . .
Brrrrrrrrrrrr . . .
part basket case, all lowercase.
"You need a six? All right everyone, she needs a six!"
Anyone other than a goblin would've gotten only a hand caught in the cookie jar.
"Afternoon, folks. Lovely day for a stroll with my authentic human baby."
"That pigeon knows something, and we will find out what." —X
S-U-C-K
"My heart filled with warmth, and I felt my feet lift from the ground. Suddenly, I was free—free to soar, the homes beneath me shrinking to specs on a map."
"The chain fit my neck perfectly, but my hearth fluttered with chills as the cool metal came to rest against my chest. I closed the clasp and waited, silent."
"This pendant was my grandmother's legacy. I sought solitude among the trees as moonlight danced on their branches, her gift safe in my hand."
"My grandmother had sold the rest of her jewelry long ago, but she left a particular necklace in my care: a golden chain, bearing a raven-shaped charm."
Why was 5 afraid of 6? Because 678.
"What's wrong, dear? Nothing a 44-to-22 bronze spur gear and reducer pairing couldn't fix, I bet."
After a hundred failed patent applications, Cornelian was stunned to find that no one had ever created a steam-powered autonomous ice cream delivery system. He immediately designed a gnome with scoops for hands.
You have to hang around the graveyard if you want to catch the talking dead.
"Dognapping is such an ugly word. I would characterize this as a unilateral redistribution of pets."
Nothing gets by her . . . except the evidence, the motive, and the culprit.
Storm crow lonely, boon for a birder. Storm crows together, likely a murder.
Sometimes the books hit back.
"First attempt: unsuccessful. Instead of an amphibious chicken, hybridization produced an aquaphobic fish."
"Those who witness my work often question its necessity. I've never understood that." —Dr. Julius Jumblemorph
In recursive chess, one piece can capture another only after beating it in a game of recursive chess.
"Turn a blender into an arc welder with a portable fusion reactor and a frozen yogurt dispenser? We can do it!"
"You say you're capable of flying. You got any proof of that?"
The odds are good, but the goods are odd.
His armor is lightweight titanium alloy, but his will is iron.
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the tea cozy."
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the olive forks."
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the melon baler."
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the juicer."
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the gravy boat."
"Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the garlic press."
"My sword is at your service, as are my scissors, corkscrew, and bottle opener."
"Up high! To the side! Down low! To the left! Other left! Over here—"
"I treat every foe according to the highest codes of conduct. Then I kill them."
There's no race like gnome.
The two Eldrazi titans fell and set the ground a-rumbling! "How come no one ever listens?" old Ugin flew off grumbling. — ZENDIKAR! The Musical
Elspeth, blessed by Heliod, stepped up where the hydra trod. Soon afterward, a lesson learned: attack the Champion, get burned! — THEROS! The Musical
So Griselbrand was bound, his rage brought to a halt. 'Til Lili Vess came 'round, asking, "Hey, what's in the vault?" — INNISTRAD! The Musical
And thus at Maze's End the runners end their strife. Our saving grace, that hooded kid, is now Guildpact for life. —RAVNICA! The Musical
Now all they needed was a jolly, happy soul.
She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs.
Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep.
She now sees only Emrakul's visions.
The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects: the creative sun, the sustaining sun, and the destructive sun.
It's said the spirits of the drowned dead hang their lights from the shattered figureheads.
Those who examine the amulet too closely have been known to become part of its ornate carvings.
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.
"Rejoice! Your vile blood will help fulfill our righteous cause."
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
Within silent clearings guarded by living palisades, the natural world guards its most precious secrets.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could." —Karador, Ghost Chieftain
It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
Nature exists in balance: river and jungle, sky and sea, predator and prey.
To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
"There's only one route from Kessig into Stensia. Unless you come with me."
"Ruhan would never agree to such terms." —Ruhan of the Fomori
"It is the nature of souls that they burn more brightly together than apart." —Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away.
"You too, Squib?"
"No emergency is so dire that it cannot be dealt with elegantly." —Olivia Voldaren
He listens to every heartbeat, deciding which one of hundreds he will stop.
"Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot."
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
"Every Silumgar blade carries the blessing of our dragonlord." —Xathi the Infallible
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
"Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades." —General Tazri, allied commander
"Soaring is wasted on the winged." —Edric, Spymaster of Trest
Not to be. That is the answer.
Just when you thought you'd survived the first wave.
"Over time, Konda grew ever more suspicious, fearing even his most loyal allies were being manipulated by unseen hands." —The History of Kamigawa
"We are not an empire, and I am not a queen. But I speak with the shout of the rivers and the whisper of the clinging mist."
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
Centuries of association with the Sun Empire have taught the dinosaurs that shiny things are important.
The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must." —Kaalia of the Vast
"Assume everything wants to kill you. At the very least, assume everything wants what's in your pack."
The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.
"The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world." —Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon"
"All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace." —Ajani Goldmane
To find its center is to find one's own.
The day is born within its branches.
Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames.
Shamans of Kar-Sengir claim that their sun sets because it can no longer bear the gaze of those pain-carved cliffs.
The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
It doesn't point north. It points home.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." —Elspeth Tirel
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ." —Heidar, Rimewind master
"Let go of your memories and be reborn." —Argent Etchings, plate 106, passage 27
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?" —Jhoira, master artificer
"Each night, the artificer tucked the little doll into a locked drawer. Each morning, she awoke to find it waiting beside her with some new bauble." —"The Artificer's Apprentice"
Kolaghan has no lasting home, but her disciples leave relics to mark her conquests.
The idols were forged during the time of the Khanfall, when the dragons came to rule Tarkir and its people aligned themselves with the five dragonlords.
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.
Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design." —Momir Vig
Night after night, Rosheen babbled about a bygone sunlit world, her every word dismissed as a madwoman's ravings.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer." —Ajani Goldmane
"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend." —Elspeth Tirel
Within silent clearings guarded by living palisades, the natural world guards its most precious secrets.
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive." —Niv-Mizzet
"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir." —Szadek
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
She paints pictures with words, though not all pictures show the truth.
Two times the size, four times the smell.
"Mana grows and changes like the roots of a plant. Like a plant, it must be nurtured." —Nissa Revane
"Can you build a fire? Track a deer? Identify killer trees? Then you'll never survive Kessig without me."
"You can have the body, necromancer. I just want the skin."
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
When nature calls, run.
"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies." —The War Diaries
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all." —Sildark, artificer of Omu
It makes the insignificant conspicuous, the repulsive alluring, and the deadly irresistible.
Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
The light of the rising star empowers the champions of tomorrow.
On Murasa, even the trees grow trees.
In the gardens of the centaurs, many travelers have mysteriously vanished while admiring the elaborate topiaries.
"Now is the hour. Ours is the duty. For victory and family—charge!"
Dragons scorn the weak, even among their own kind.
Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.
Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.
For Mittens, it was just another day at the beach.
"Last time, it tore up the Wilt-Leaf, turned Mistmeadow into a mudhole, and made the river jump its banks. On the bright side, we were eating venison for weeks." —Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer
"Hunters feed on the fear of their prey." —Garruk Wildspeaker
The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.
To some mages, the meaning of life is less important than how much is left.
So-called "old wood" is rare in deforested Ravnica. Statues carved from it are said to house the last of the ancient nature spirits.
In the towering trees of the Samok Stand and the predators that guard them, the might of the Ravnican wild has returned.
"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone." —The War Diaries
When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."
"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?" —Sarkhan Vol
The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes.
The course of the falling star always ends in ruin.
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."
"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."
The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb.
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
"There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"I found a new toy. Wanna play?"
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it." —Sarkhan Vol
It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods.
What is the sound of one head snapping?
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"If it were merely lethal, that would be sufficient. The art, however, is in maximizing the suffering it causes." —Liliana Vess
As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators.
"Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind."
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed." —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
The litany of the infernal on his flesh pulses to the beating of his dark heart.
Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?
"I was not convinced you had a soul until I saw it for myself." —Liliana Vess
Rakdos rioters paint their faces to resemble the drakes' bloodied muzzles.
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
His spark lost, he plots revenge upon the plane whose corrupting mana fractured his soul.
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.
"How can we wage war against ourselves? What happens when the kami of our very souls rise against us? I answer simply: We cannot. We die. There can be no victory in this war." —Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda
"My summoning begins your debt, Planeswalker."
The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn.
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
The hymn's melody has persisted since Tourach's time, but the words changed to invoke the phobias of each listener.
"Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head." —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
He's the unlife of the party.
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
The Crave made Kneecleaver think she was bigger than the dragon.
"The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients."
A shadow of life chasing a husk of glory.
Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.
His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.
"Rich" is a relative term.
"As you inject the viscus vitae into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears." —Stitcher Geralf
To save this plane, he must forsake all others.
Ojutai's words must be translated from Draconic before his students can benefit from their wisdom.
Wounds of the flesh are easy to heal. Wounds of the mind may never be undone.
Adepts of the Riverwheel Stronghold can run through rain and never get wet; masters use the raindrops as stepping stones.
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be." —Agosto, Azorius imperator
Is it an amalgamation of faded memories or the projection of a half-remembered dream? Neither answer offers any comfort.
"It augments anamnesis. What is so confusing about that?" —Perisophia the philosopher
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
Enthusiasm is no match for preparation.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
The pull of the tide star holds eternal sway.
"It is not a goal, but a process—the process of creating the perfect Phyrexia."
"Where's the fun in an escape if it's not at least a little daring?"
In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.
"In a daze, I woke and looked upon the battlefield, where I could swear my dreams were laying waste to the enemy." —Letter from a soldier
"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover." —Talrand, sky summoner
"Learn to see an obstacle from a new perspective. Underneath, for example." —Chanyi, Ojutai monk
One piercing stare usually convinces thieves to go elsewhere.
"You thought only the gods could stop you?"
Everything seems a little less ferocious when it's running from a house cat.
Blessed by the hands of Jin-Gitaxias.
"Shame we'll never see what all the fuss was about."
Cephalids value the free exchange of ideas—except for the "free" part.
"Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension." —Jhoira, master artificer
"I knew I'd find a use for all that newt spittle!"
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."
The caress of the morning star frees all from the clutch of darkness.
"My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone."
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
"Human enlightenment is a firefly that sparks in the night. Dragon enlightenment is a beacon that disperses all darkness."
Faith in Serra is its own reward.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."
Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear.
"Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!"
"May the Ancestor strengthen my hand and guide my blade." —Nomad war prayer
"I was told these were standard issue. Do I look standard to you?"
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."
He has spent years training his eyes and ears to detect the subtle signs of a dragon's approach.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"The tools of evil are mere things. And like all things, they cannot last forever." —Song of All, canto 881
"We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening."
"I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see."
Although the door is flimsy and the lock pathetically small, Josuri's family never fears the night outside.
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
Mirrodin's deepest caverns conceal its brightest hopes.
Even the wicked have nightmares.
As demons are drawn to suffering, angels are drawn to acts of benevolence.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers." —Jazal Goldmane
"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
"Wherever I walk, the ancestors walk too."
For hundreds of years Ugin slept, encased in the cocoon of stone and magic Sarkhan had created using a shard of a Zendikari hedron. As Ugin lay dormant, his spectral guardians kept vigil.
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
The land is dying, but it will not go peacefully.
"In my early experiments in phylactery, I found that fragile forms have their uses." —Rocati, Duke of Martyne
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious." —A tale of Auntie Grub
Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.
"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions." —Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar
"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests." —Mardu threat
"A true warrior fights with whatever's handy." —Qerk of the Secret Warren
"The best way over the mountain is through."
Finding themselves in a new and unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.
Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin.
When you need to convey that special kind of message.
"It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!"
Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath.
After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.
Flurk's crude goblin language didn't differentiate between "I bring the flame" and "I am the flame."
Measure once, cut twice.
It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it.
He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.
The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.
There is always a rabble to be roused.
Once, water ran here. Now only dust and ash fall from the clifftops.
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
Anyone who thinks merrows have more brains than brawn has never been run over by one.
"The floor of the sea is paved with the shattered remnants of vessels that navigated its surface unwelcomed." —Thassa, god of the sea
The tide of battle favors those who can swim.
Kapsho merfolk have infiltrated fortresses as remote as the desert citadel in Sunari in their relentless quest for arcane knowledge.
"Bitter water, vicious wave; Shadow-cold shallows, root-made maze. Home's angry embrace." —Rootwater Saga
Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.
"Be like the sea: flow around that which is unmovable; for everything else, crash into it unrelentingly."
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
"Let the land dwellers know the coast is no longer the border between our realms. A new age of empire has begun."
"What you attempt to pull from the aether, I can spread onto the wind." —Jace Beleren
"The tides have begun to ignore the moon." —Tamiyo's journal
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
"You may want to hold your breath." —Kellyg, merrow aquitect
2017 North American Vintage Champion
2018 Europe Legacy Champion
"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth.
When Huatli chooses a mount, its eyes glow with the flames of the sun.
"Run like the wind, fierce one. The hunt has begun."
Don't make the mistake of thinking blunt horns can't kill.
Countless streams flow into the nine rivers, and the nine rivers flow into the Great River. The River Heralds guard them all.
"We drove the Sun Empire out of the forest long ago, and we will not let them return."
"Just imagine what's waiting around the bend. Adventure. Discovery. Riches for the taking. This is why I sail." —Captain Lannery Storm
To the Sun Empire, any place where daylight brightens the jungle floor is sacred ground.
Cliffs echo and branches quake at the roar of life.
Ships blown north in their voyage across the Stormwreck Sea become trapped in the unmelting ice.
None can tell how many vessels are tangled up on the sea floor—or how much treasure remains unclaimed.
When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles.
The pirates had left the open sea behind, but they were still in their element: reckless adventure.
In the Rite of Redemption, nobles take the same vows as Elenda, the first vampire, and make the same eternal sacrifice.
The River Heralds fight to keep all others from reaching the golden city. The city has its own defenses.
It loomed up over the horizon, silent and dark as a grave.
Flotsam held together by optimism.
"For four hundred years, I have led armies of conquest. These lands hold nothing that can stand against me."
"Wherever the Threefold Sun shines, great wings may go." —Emperor Apatzec Intli III
Shapers adapt nature to fit their needs and then return it to the way it was, leaving no trace of their passing.
"Seeing a pack of these monsters hunt together, I'm at a loss to imagine the size of their prey." —Adrian Adanto of Lujio
Carnivorous dinosaurs developed a taste for undead flesh, tracking the vampires by the scent of blood on their breath.
"I'll be taking that."
Orcs are happiest under captains who steer toward battle. Orcs of the Dire Fleet are downright jovial.
"Keep your friends close and your enemies within range."
By the law of church and crown, vampires feed only on the blood of the guilty—those declared heretics, rebels, or enemies of war.
Predators try to separate the young, old, or injured from the rest of the herd. The alternative is crushing defeat.
"You and your ship will make a fine addition to my fleet."
"Hear me, stone, root, branch: be the fist of this land. Turn back those who trample upon your domain." —Song of the Shaper
"Our foes are many and mighty, but not as many as the trees or as mighty as the sea."
She has never touched a loom, yet the tapestries she weaves are vast and beautiful.
"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
The dryads of the forest have no stake in Ixalan's conflict, but they hate to see any living being suffer.
"There is always another way."
"It appears that nature has risen against us." —Captain Brinely Rage
The conquistadors surrounded the dinosaur only to find that it had outflanked them.
Lurking beneath the murky waters of Ixalan's rivers, sailbacks can rip a meal off the shore in the blink of an eye.
The magic of the River Heralds is so great that even a single shaman can fend off a pirate landing party.
Protection is woven into every vine and branch.
"We are kin to the trees, and their strength is our own."
Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside.
A daggertooth's triumphant roar makes all the sounds of jungle life fall silent.
They cover their territory like a tide of teeth and claws.
The drive to hunt and feed is raw instinct for dinosaurs. The trick is simply to channel it in the right direction.
"The jungle was here before any city. It will be here after the last city falls."
"The same power that drives the river ever onward flows through the roots and branches—to me."
"There is no power too great to be used in the defense of our ancestral lands."
The River Heralds believe that jade gives weight to their magic.
The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Ixalli is the Verdant Sun, who fosters growth in all things.
Often found browsing on the upper canopies of Ixalan's jungles, whiptails are known to absently bat away anything foolish enough to interrupt their meal.
"By accepting my smallness I am vast."
"I do not lead. They do not follow. We walk together."
"We breathe from our soul and bones to give strength to the jungle. The jungle breathes from its roots and rivers to give strength to us." —Shaper Falani
"No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home."
"Do not mistake your lofty vantage point for safety." —Shaper Tuvasa
The Legion's conquistadors could endure Ixalan's sun. Their forts could withstand a charging ceratops. But nothing can stop a ceratops strengthened by the sun.
If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late.
Sun Empire commanders are well versed in advanced martial strategy. Still, the correct maneuver is usually to deploy the giant, implacable death lizard.
The only force on Ixalan not interested in finding the golden city is Ixalan itself.
"I see you, shiny soldiers, but you won't see me."
His arrows are fletched with feathers from the greatest of the winged dinosaurs.
It is taller than all but the tallest trees, and older than all but the oldest.
Goblins climb and swing with ease, whether through a pirate ship's rigging or a tree's branches.
Disputes within the Brazen Coalition can escalate from insult to broadside in the blink of an eye.
"I am the ferocity of the Burning Sun. I am hide and feather, fang and claw."
The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Tilonalli is the Burning Sun, associated with ferocity, fire, and passion.
They glide through the undergrowth, drawn to sounds of disturbance. They attack in unison and all share in the kill. And then they move on.
The pirates of the Brazen Coalition are the descendants of those displaced by the Legion of Dusk, and they are eager for vengeance.
"Everyone has a weak spot."
One alone is dangerous, and they are never alone.
"Go ahead, build another. I'll burn that down as well."
"The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun." —Shaper Pashona
Goblins' eager curiosity leads them to scavenging, petty theft, and the rigging of sleek pirate ships. Some stop at scavenging.
The enormous can still be at the mercy of the small.
The hook makes him feel brave, and the hat makes him feel fancy.
"Every little hatchling has a parent's claws to guard it." —Sun Empire saying
All raptors are aggressive, but ferocidons seem to enjoy their prey's pain.
"Forward! Let the Burning Sun's light guide you to deserving prey!"
"These sailors on our shores are like the dinosaurs that plunder eggs from nests. They live on the labors of others." —Itzama the Crested
"Grease up a firecannon good and proper with dinosaur-liver oil, and it'll shoot just about anything."
A pirate ship in battle is a storm of activity.
"Storm on the horizon, cap'n!" —Grick Doobin, last words
Trapped on Ixalan, the Planeswalker Angrath is the only minotaur sailing the seas. No matter how many ships he captures, he cannot break free.
"Watch your backs, keep your blades at hand, and let the orc go first!" —Captain Brandis Thorn
Sun Empire warriors are taught to emulate the fearless raptors that fling themselves against towers of horn and muscle a hundred times their size.
Goblins' fearlessness and diminutive size make them the perfect cannoneers.
Though grimed with the dust of centuries, the ancient shrine was not unguarded.
Wary of the ferocious dinosaurs, the Legion of Dusk built up the walls of their fort—just in time for the pirates to burn them down.
As she charges into battle, her arcane tattoos stir and crawl like fiery serpents.
"Through me the rage of Tilonalli burns twice as bright."
If you're in the way of a ceratops charge and you're made of mere flesh and bone, then you're not really in the way.
What took months for human hands to carve took just seconds for the dinosaur's tail to ruin.
"I knew I should have stayed with the boat. Always stay with the boat!"
"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
"You don't tame a horncrest. You convince it that it's easier to destroy something else." —Amautl, knight of Atzocan
Captain Angrath cares less about treasure than mayhem. If he can't leave Ixalan, he'll burn the plane down.
"Trust me. The reward's not worth it."
When Captain Thorn adds a new ship to his fleet, he gives the crew a simple choice: follow me, or fall in the sea.
It wasn't long before the taverns of High and Dry were full of whispers about the new captain who could turn a person to stone with a glance.
"He is ambitious. Tireless. And utterly ruthless. Ideal for the frontier." —Viceroy Elia Sotonores, report to the queen
The clerics known as condemners punish those who do not recognize the righteous authority of the church.
"Take my blood if you want. Just don't take my gold!"
"What is this foul presence that defies the sun's cleansing rays?" —Itzama the Crested
From the perpetual shadowsmoke that hung above the ship, a silent form emerged, lips curled with malice and anticipation.
"They're so much more willing to parley once they're hanging from a boom by the ankle!"
It flows like water over the forest floor, as deadly as the swiftest current.
Dusk follows the light.
The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous.
"This scum is barely worth the trouble."
One was spared to tell the gruesome tale.
The soldiers of the Legion of Dusk have come to the colonies at Queen's Bay in search of glory and riches. They are veterans of centuries of warfare, and they thirst for conquest.
"Through your sacrifice of self, you become holy. Through your strength, all will be saved." —From the Rite of Redemption
"Shadow birthed it. The moon gave it eyes, and the jungle gave it teeth. But it was Death that taught it cruelty." —Huatli
When the battle is over, the bitterest foes at last find common ground.
"It was a bad evening for you, mate. Now it's chow time for the sharks."
"Join me, and take the world for yourself!"
Solitude and starvation are brutal punishments, but even worse is all that time to think.
His fists fume with the decay of death, each strike a plague on the hearts of his enemies.
Among the pirates of the Brazen Coalition, the only thing more dangerous than failure is success.
A pirate crew without a ship is a crew that will do anything to get one.
"Ancient one, we have reached the promised shore. The Immortal Sun is near. Drink and awake."
Despite their noble heritage, the pirates of the Deadeye Fleet are known for underhanded tactics and despicable trickery.
Demons lurk in the shadows of ancient ruins, spreading plague and corruption across the land.
No lock of iron is a match for Vraska's will of stone.
For a price, the floating city of High and Dry offers all the amenities a pirate could want: rest, recreation, and revenge.
When a paladin undertaking the Blood Fast finally gives in to hunger, the violence is sudden, explosive, and complete.
It withers fruit and flesh alike.
"They shall give us all they have as penance for their resistance. Their ships. Their goods. Their rebellious blood."
Inspiration is red as rubies, flowing like honeyed wine.
"Currents are currents, whether in sea or sky."
The river is a powerful friend.
"I am the storm."
In his hands, the wind can become a weapon or a means of escape.
"They're searching in the same direction we are. And for the same thing, I'll wager."
"Only one thing beats the freedom of the sea: the freedom of the sky."
"A fool's fire is quickly quenched." —Shaper Kumena
Deception and misdirection are the heart of the pirate's arsenal.
He's the calm that hides the coming storm.
Over their long life spans, the larger trilobites accumulate vast treasure troves in their guts.
One pirate's wreck is another's reward.
The River Heralds would wreck a thousand ships to keep intruders from finding the golden city.
In the Brazen Coalition, the wheels of business are greased with plunder.
"That's the first time I've seen the ground do the running." —Captain Brinely Rage
Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.
No ripples, no splashes, no warning.
The floating city of High and Dry hasn't yet sunk under the weight of gold, but it's not for want of trying.
Nothing warms the heart like plunder.
For the first time in her life, Vraska tried to prevent death.
The truth came to Kumena like the Great River's torrent: the only way to keep his enemies away from the hidden city was to claim its power for himself.
"It's easy to anticipate Captain Storm's orders: take the more dangerous route."
"River and sea, jungle and sky. Water flows freely between the two halves of the world. We are creatures of the water." —Shaper Tuvasa
"You won't be needing this. Or this. Or these . . ."
Her song plucks the strings of the storm, shifting wind and storm into a harmony that will carry her ship to safety.
"I know these waters better than you know yourselves."
"You might as well try to stop the waterfall."
"The elders say that if the intruders discovered the secret of the golden city, it would mean an end to our people."
"Captain, I think that island is following us."
"Like ribbons of wind and wisdom the coatls fly, twisting mystery into truth, shaping the clouds to suit their inscrutable will." —Huatli
The stronger the will, the more bewitching the song.
"Seeing the river is not the same as seeing the fish."
Pockets full of gold, lungs full of brine.
A visit to the Deeproot Tree and its ancient spring replenishes a merfolk's connection to nature.
"Welcome aboard, mate! You're going to need this."
"They'll never see me coming."
While other pirates prowl for treasure, Captain Parrish plunders secrets.
"Hold your fire, obviously." —Captain Brandis Thorn
As the ship approached, the jade totem rose high overhead. Power rippled. Eyes of stone glowed and crackled. Out hissed a breath of the world, and a windstorm came alive.
"Kinjalli's encompassing rays herald new life in the moment of the sun's dawning." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
The Feast of Blood sends new life essence flowing through the vampire who partakes, manifesting as even greater strength and speed.
The glorious city of Pachatupa is the center of the Sun Empire, and Tocatli, the emperor's palace, is its glowing heart.
From the eyes up, it's solid bone and stubbornness.
"Like the mighty armasaur, we will defend against all who invade our shores." —Itzama the Crested
"The amber sun smokes with fury, gazing on foes that gather like ants invading our home. We are ready! Blade and claw strike as one." —Huatli
Vampires call the gift of flight "exultation." For their enemies, it brings only sorrow.
"The invaders cloak themselves in the shadows of dusk. Aerosaurs hide in the brilliance of the noonday sun." —Caparocti Sunborn
Those who wield the power of the sun protect the Empire from darkness.
"As the sun sets to make way for dawn, so we turn to darkness to bring about the coming salvation."
"Nothing is more sacred than the gift of blood. Blessed are the vein that empties and the heart that is renewed."
A raptor will follow any order as long as that order is "hunt," "kill," or "go for the guts."
"The sun's strength sings in our hearts! I have never been more proud of my home and my people." —Huatli
"Let the blood of the impure flow through you. Only the blessings of the golden city will purge its acrid taste from your mouth." —High Marshal Arguel
"To rise like the sun—there is no greater feeling."
"Ours is the true and righteous path. You will bow before our might."
Closely linked to the Church of Dusk, the paladins of the Bloodstained order are devout to the point of fanaticism.
In the rapture of his Blood Fast, he destroyed the navigator's tools and steered the ship to shore by faith alone.
Nature can't be tamed, but the Sun Empire believes that humans are made stronger when they test themselves against the wild strength of the dinosaurs.
"My lance was once wielded by Venerable Tarrian. In his name and by his might, I cast you down!"
The Legion of Dusk sailed from Torrezon in search of glory, riches, and the Immortal Sun.
"There are moments when I feel I could fly like the sunwing. Far away I would soar, but always a golden gale pushes me back." —Huatli
The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Kinjalli is the Wakening Sun, who created humans from clay and baked them in the sun's warmth.
Jace awoke to the certainty that he was lost.
"The Immortal Sun will bring us true eternal life to replace the everlasting shadow of undeath."
"Together my mount and I are stronger than either of us apart."
Its assistance is unnervingly similar to its hunting technique.
"Follow her footsteps and she will show you the way." —Itzama the Crested
"The blood of the enemy is a sacrament. The strength it gives is proof that our cause is just."
Paladins of the Sanctum Seeker order are an adventurous lot, venturing into the wilds with monstrous mastiffs at their side.
"The hour of Dusk is come."
"The River Heralds carve spells into jade, hoping to steer us from our course. But what right do they have to keep us from that which once was ours?"
Vampires know blood and the systems that carry it. And they know exactly where to strike to set it free.
Vampires, the noble class of old Torrezon, are guided by their dual loyalties to church and crown.
"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
Its roaring challenge is punctuated by the slam of its tail on the earth, rousing the herds of the plains.
The Church of Dusk teaches there is no gain without loss, no triumph without sacrifice, no drink of exquisite crimson without a dying gasp.
"Let no trace of the vampires' foulness remain."
To the Sun Empire, any place where daylight brightens the jungle floor is sacred ground.
Cliffs echo and branches quake at the roar of life.
Ships blown north in their voyage across the Stormwreck Sea become trapped in the unmelting ice.
None can tell how many vessels are tangled up on the sea floor—or how much treasure remains unclaimed.
When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles.
"For four hundred years, I have led armies of conquest. These lands hold nothing that can stand against me."
"Seeing a pack of these monsters hunt together, I'm at a loss to imagine the size of their prey." —Adrian Adanto of Lujio
"You and your ship will make a fine addition to my fleet."
"Our foes are many and mighty, but not as many as the trees or as mighty as the sea."
"Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
Protection is woven into every vine and branch.
Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside.
"The jungle was here before any city. It will be here after the last city falls."
"No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home."
Sun Empire commanders are well versed in advanced martial strategy. Still, the correct maneuver is usually to deploy the giant, implacable death lizard.
"I am the ferocity of the Burning Sun. I am hide and feather, fang and claw."
"The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun." —Shaper Pashona
All raptors are aggressive, but ferocidons seem to enjoy their prey's pain.
"We sail. We plunder. Then we dance."
"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
"Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades." – Chitlati, Lightning Rider
Captain Angrath cares less about treasure than mayhem. If he can't leave Ixalan, he'll burn the plane down.
It wasn't long before the taverns of High and Dry were full of whispers about the new captain who could turn a person to stone with a glance.
"Take my blood if you want. Just don't take my gold!"
The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous.
"Join me, and take the world for yourself!"
His fists fume with the decay of death, each strike a plague on the hearts of his enemies.
When a paladin undertaking the Blood Fast finally gives in to hunger, the violence is sudden, explosive, and complete.
Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap.
The truth came to Kumena like the Great River's torrent: the only way to keep his enemies away from the hidden city was to claim its power for himself.
"I know these waters better than you know yourselves."
"You might as well try to stop the waterfall."
"Captain, I think that island is following us."
The stronger the will, the more bewitching the song.
"They'll never see me coming."
"Kinjalli's encompassing rays herald new life in the moment of the sun's dawning." —Chitlati, Lightning Rider
The glorious city of Pachatupa is the center of the Sun Empire, and Tocatli, the emperor's palace, is its glowing heart.
"As the sun sets to make way for dawn, so we turn to darkness to bring about the coming salvation."
In the rapture of his Blood Fast, he destroyed the navigator's tools and steered the ship to shore by faith alone.
"There are moments when I feel I could fly like the sunwing. Far away I would soar, but always a golden gale pushes me back." —Huatli
"Follow her footsteps and she will show you the way." —Itzama the Crested
"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
"In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful."
The Church of Dusk teaches there is no gain without loss, no triumph without sacrifice, no drink of exquisite crimson without a dying gasp.
"Let no trace of the vampires' foulness remain."
"I'll tell you one thing—it's not nothin'!" —Garj Grabclaw, goblin sergeant
"Keep rising."
"Sure, I could set things on fire by myself. But teamwork can be fun, too."
Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas." —Kiora
In Gavony, headstones come only from quarries that have been blessed by chaplains.
The Selesnya welcome all to help them heal the city's wounds. The price, however, is devotion to the guild and a selfless belief in Trostani.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
That which endures, survives.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull." —Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat … if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."—Volux, disciple of Nin
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing." —Melira, sylvok outcast
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
The best swords are forged with dragonfire.
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned.""And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
Part tool, part weapon, part of the kor.
"It is all in my grasp. Every petty dream, every grand scheme, every soul, every fear. It all flows through me and from me." —Memnarch
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, the Pretender
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was." —Koth of the Hammer
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.
All suns must set.
"No longer can we allow our human populations to be mindlessly slaughtered by ghouls. Slay all who trespass." —Runo Stromkirk
A king in Jund, a serf in Esper.
"No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death." —Tasigur, the Golden Fang
"I am the blood of the ur-dragon, coursing through all dragonkind."
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun." —Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."
He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable."
"Vengeance is the echo of the victim's own crime." —Grensch, merrow cutthroat
He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
Fusing intelligence with the power of undeath requires inspiration of the darkest kind.
"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her." —Daghatar the Adamant
A pretty bauble of persecution.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir." —Yasova Dragonclaw
The Temur see themselves as a pack, their bonds more primal than the Abzan's.
An avatar he sculpts of wisdom and strength.
There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
The cat warriors recognized this Jedit's face, but not his fierce loyalty to Efrava.
To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
"I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."—Nissa Revane
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters and this dark plane is not big enough for you to hide." —Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess
The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself.
Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath.
"If you're not having fun, what's the point of living forever?"
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it." —Sarkhan Vol
As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed." —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.
It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.
He climbs a staircase of falling souls, fighting the continuous pull of the void.
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."
"Ah, this is a nice life. I can see why you were so desperate to keep it."
"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps." —Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas.
Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
A mage willing to dedicate his life to his craft.
"So many have died in search of that map. And now it appears in the hands of the arrogant child Chandra Nalaar."
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier." —Ob Nixilis
"Even a dragon is humble as a kitten if it thinks itself a slave."
"The secret entrance should be near."
"The flies were bothering me." —Jalira, master polymorphist
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth.
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
Their lust for battle was so great that they didn't care their enemies wore their own faces.
"I am who I pretend to be."
"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami." —Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury.
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape." —Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house."
"End this. What I seek is far greater." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
Some believe that Raksha, youngest of the kha, is the reincarnation of Dakan, the first and mightiest of leonin leaders.
Her instinct is as sharp as her blade.
"Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning."
"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."
"As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations." —Ajani Goldmane
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
"They had it coming." —Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick
Survival of the purest.
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place."
Spilled blood always begets more of the same.
Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.
At his behest the Kami War began to regain That Which Was Taken.
"All will know of your crimes."
"I give my blood, my life, all I have in exchange for victory."
"Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing."
Self-reflection is not without its perils.
With such great footsteps, everything is within walking distance.
All things will crumble, whether by time or by force.
Flavorful aromas beckon many a salivating maw.
For goblins, quantity is quality.
Dinner and politics don't mix.
Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand.
The finest soldiers aren't worth a whit without a set of hands to lead them and a set of eyes to guide them.
"My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond."
Heart, mind, soul—weapons all.
"Now isn't that better?" —Olivia Voldaren
In the end, the lights fade, the land withers, and only the dead and vile remain.
Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul.
Death arrives on tattered wings and stolen bones.
"The veil of death hides little from our kind."
"I'll show you what you truly desire."
Few things are truly "lost" at sea.
Ground bones, broken glass, and splintered shipwrecks make up the sands of his shores.
Idle chatter beckons many an attentive ear.
The justice of dragons demands more than just an eye for an eye.
"... Is it over?"
Good health beckons many a vigorous follower.
"What weapon will you bear against one who's mastered them all?"
"There is no justice when some profit and others go without."
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."
"I do as I choose with what is mine. And it is all mine." —Nicol Bolas
The God-Pharaoh's most devoted took it upon themselves to follow his example.
As the Second Sun glided into its final position in the sky, a chorus of wings sounded to herald the return of Nicol Bolas.
"Bolas's power on this plane can't be absolute. Look around you." —Nissa Revane
Life will find a way, or it will make one.
"All can't be lost. Nissa has shown me that."
"What will happen to us?" they asked. The vizier paused. "I think . . . I think that's up to us now."
When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep.
Amonkhet's desiccated land thirsts for blood.
The Curse of Wandering permeated Amonkhet long before Nicol Bolas. He simply harnessed it.
The dead entered as worthy. They exited as Eternals.
"Why wander in search of a new home when the path is laid out before you?" —Pytamun, former Nef-crop initiate
Decades to build. Hours to demolish.
Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential.
"Though the afterlife, the city, and even the God-Pharaoh himself were one great deception, the ideals championed by the gods remain true." —Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
The embodiment of yearning, forever drifting the deserts to find what had once made it whole.
Ironically, the statues had been constructed as a warning.
The God-Pharaoh's angels stripped former initiates of their cartouches and the fortifying magic they provided.
Although long since dead, the banished dissenters finally took their vengeance.
"We are no longer in control." —Elekh, vizier of embalming
"It's a cruel thing to give such a sad song to such a colorful creature." —Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate
"We are crops no longer. Reap elsewhere."
The destruction of Rhonas's monument released his collection upon the city.
The crocodiles of the Broken Lands, long used to feeding on undead flesh, eagerly flooded into Naktamun for a taste of something fresher.
"Rhonas's monument belongs to the wurms now. Look elsewhere for refuge." —Arnun, vizier of the menagerie
"Those who embrace the harsh land rather than fight it find they have a powerful ally." —Nissa Revane
"Give me some room."
Rhonas continued to fight until his last breath and even beyond.
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."
"Respect is earned through deeds—or the capacity to bite someone in half." —Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate
"The ruin of the past is the topsoil of the future." —Sokar, former Nef-crop initiate
"Forward! Until the horizon is ours!" —Khemses, charioteer
"It's only the end if we allow it."
"The soul of this world is gone, Nissa, and I would gladly kill it again." —Nicol Bolas
"If you believe the God-Pharaoh tests you, charge with me to prove yourself. If you believe he betrayed us all, join with me to fight for tomorrow!" —Samut, former Tah-crop initiate
With the Hekma breached and its protection removed, the deserts swept in.
Some refused to leave their shattered homes, vowing to rebuild at any cost.
She trusts that the potent poisons of her darts will reach the enemy before the enemy reaches her.
"What greater testament can there be to Rhonas's lessons?"
It basks atop the rubble of Rhonas's monument, which still pulses with latent power.
Once favored companions, many cats were left to fend for themselves.
The desert had once been a place of endless horror. It was now the last refuge as the city of Naktamun fell.
When Rhonas fell, his followers stirred with newfound strength—a final gift from a god they thought indomitable.
"Remember, brother, the eyes are always vulnerable." "I never forgot."
Though buried and muffled, nature's whisper still called to Nissa.
"Spent a lifetime learning from predators. Picked up a few tricks."
Those who fled the destruction of the city stumbled into the territory of their prickly neighbors.
The bombardment of sand disorients, chokes, and ultimately tenderizes its prey.
"Neither the false God-Pharaoh nor his bugs will decide our fate." —Samut, former Tah-crop initiate
Some khenra archers fashion their arrows with a personal touch.
"This is what glory looks like." —Nicol Bolas
While most Eternals were initiates who completed the trials, Bolas had plans for some of Amonkhet's other denizens.
Sand into glass and flesh into ash—such are the markers of its domain.
The minotaur stared at the Eternal bearing down on him—the embodiment of deadly skill he had aspired to become.
"There is no tomorrow, so hold nothing back."
"When the whole world is crazy, it's important to find something you can rely on."
"Everything here exists or perishes at my whim. Including you, Gatewatch." —Nicol Bolas
"That one's not mine. Run!" —Nissa Revane
The plating of its horns is a token of honor from Hazoret, who favors creatures with great hearts.
The God-Pharaoh's benevolence concealed the factory he created to produce an army of Eternals.
A word of vengeance, and her arrows awaken in flame.
"Everyone here is a honed fighter. We'll respond the only way we know how."
There were those who saw the death of the gods and the city's collapse as a final test of worth. Some believed it meant the God-Pharaoh had been killed. Only a few realized they had been deceived.
"We have to get out of the city, Djeru. All of us! Gather as many as you can." —Samut, former Tah-crop initiate
The food chain doesn't end at sandwurms.
"Fire? Is that your only trick, Chandra?" —Nicol Bolas
"There is no afterlife. Not for me, and not for you. So think again before getting in my way."
Samut battled her way through the hordes, shouting the names of those who'd died in her crop and those she hoped yet to save.
The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone.
Perfectly adapted to cross the wastes in life, they bring the wastes with them in death.
The glyphs writhed and twisted, spewing out dark, vengeful magic.
The Scorpion God's sting sends venom strong enough to poison blood, bone, and spirit.
Like a carpet unrolling for their god, the scarabs poured out from the necropolis.
"Your God-Pharaoh has returned."
Yell for help, and that may answer.
From every shadow came the dull scratch of teeth on bones.
"The blood ritual is complete. The end approaches."
Liliana insisted on coming to Amonkhet to confront one of the two remaining demons to whom she is bound.
Before the monuments, before the first trials, before Naktamun itself, Bolas culled the plane of its adults in order to rebuild it for his own designs.
"My work here is complete. The people have done everything required of them." —Nicol Bolas
With the Hekma destroyed, the wandering dead that sought entrance to Naktamun had free rein to lay waste to the city.
The dead that swept across Naktamun came in all shapes and sizes.
"All the power you have gathered for yourself, Liliana, I can take away." —Nicol Bolas
Initiates once believed defeat was the worst fate possible—a sentiment they quickly abandoned.
For many years, servant mummies toiled in the mines to extract lazotep. The emergence of the Eternals revealed the sacred substance's true purpose.
The gods of the trials also faced the opportunity to prove themselves worthy.
No cartouches to earn. No afterlife to enter. Only the glory of a well-struck blow and the growing pile of felled enemies at her feet.
"This place has outlived its usefulness." —Nicol Bolas
The banished have come home to roost.
To the last, Bontu wanted only to be first among the God-Pharaoh's subjects.
"If I die, it will not be alone."
Skills mastered by initiates are preserved within cartouches, so Eternals remain adept at their preferred combat styles.
Though Kefnet's followers feverishly searched his last words for some final riddle, they found only the gurgles of a dying god.
The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection.
The denizens of the Luxa River woke angry on the currents of blood.
"Bolas remade this place in his image. He has the advantage here. We must approach carefully." —Jace Beleren
"They were once our brothers and sisters." —Etha, former Rhet-crop initiate
"The truth? It's been here all along. The Hours as we understood them are lies."
"It's not wise to keep glory waiting."
The sphinxes began to speak only after the Second Sun aligned. They whispered dire warnings, though no one listened.
In his final moments, Kefnet reached into the minds of those around him, desperate for logic within the consuming chaos.
"I had hoped for more from you, Jace. But I expected as much." —Nicol Bolas
Liliana always knew Jace's illusions would come in handy.
To serve as an eternal is the afterlife granted to the worthy.
Those wound tightest are first to unravel.
"If creating the Eternals was Bolas's plan here, what is his plan for the Eternals?" —Jace Beleren
Initiates who had been through the Trial of Knowledge learned to see everything as pieces of a larger puzzle.
The Eternals had long since mastered every technique taught during the trials.
"Our best chance against the Eternals will be tactics they've never seen and styles they've never trained in."
"Kefnet taught us to turn obstacles into advantages." —Neponem, vizier of Kefnet
Outnumbered, but not outmatched.
In the midst of disaster, heroic acts became almost ordinary, and ordinary warriors became heroes.
Deserts are inhospitable, not uninhabitable.
The arrival of the God-Pharaoh marked a betrayal of both gods and mortals.
The sands of Amonkhet can be as much a boon as a bane. It depends entirely on which way the wind blows.
To the end, all Oketra did was for others.
"Oketra's arrow is my spear, and her love my shield."
"It appears some mummies have begun to observe a hierarchy all their own." —Elekh, vizier of embalming
In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh.
"This is the final trial! Rejoice, for the God-Pharaoh soars among us!"
"Gideon, how easy it must be to play the protector when you think yourself untouchable. How wrong you are." —Nicol Bolas
Buildings crumbled and monuments fell. The river bled and the sky wept tears of fire. All the while, servants silently continued their work, oblivious to it all.
"I was promised an afterlife, not this. Samut was right. The God-Pharaoh lied." —Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
Without the viziers to oversee their actions, some anointed went to extreme lengths to fulfill their directives.
In the chaos brought by the new gods, swift-winged aven served as pathfinders, leading the last of the people away from the ruins of Naktamun.
"It is evidence that some pure corner of the world must still exist." —Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
"This storm will calm. We must believe that."
The angels did not deceive. From the start, they were clear their allegiance was to the God-Pharaoh and to him alone.
"On every plane, there are those who run toward danger." —Gideon Jura
When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep.
Amonkhet's desiccated land thirsts for blood.
Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential.
The embodiment of yearning, forever drifting the deserts to find what had once made it whole.
Although long since dead, the banished dissenters finally took their vengeance.
The destruction of Rhonas's monument released his collection upon the city.
Rhonas continued to fight until his last breath and even beyond.
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."
"This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun."
With the Hekma breached and its protection removed, the deserts swept in.
"This is what glory looks like." —Nicol Bolas
"Everything here exists or perishes at my whim. Including you, Gatewatch." —Nicol Bolas
The food chain doesn't end at sandwurms.
"Your God-Pharaoh has returned."
Liliana insisted on coming to Amonkhet to confront one of the two remaining demons to whom she is bound.
The gods of the trials also faced the opportunity to prove themselves worthy.
To the last, Bontu wanted only to be first among the God-Pharaoh's subjects.
The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection.
In his final moments, Kefnet reached into the minds of those around him, desperate for logic within the consuming chaos.
To serve as an eternal is the afterlife granted to the worthy.
Those wound tightest are first to unravel.
The arrival of the God-Pharaoh marked a betrayal of both gods and mortals.
To the end, all Oketra did was for others.
In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh.
"It is evidence that some pure corner of the world must still exist." —Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate
"This fight belongs to us all."
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.
"I'd stand back if I were you."
The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.
So great is his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
Through the waves of Eldrazi attacks, the Murasan jungles seemed to regrow as soon as they were destroyed.
"One little word was all it took. The world shook as I said it. The doom of Zendikar was here at last." -Ob Nixilis
"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket." -Liefellen, Quirion exarch
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members-and the doomed.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law-strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size-a weight of strength and of pride." -Agrus Kos
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
Inspiration comes in all shapes and sizes.
She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.
"Learn not only from the failures of the past, but also from its triumphs." -Isperia
The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.
The land was left depleted and empty, an unsettling taste of things to come.
Lightning burns the dragon's path.
With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.
"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it." -Herman Melville, Moby Dick
Whenever the Llanowar elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.
In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show.
There is always a greater power.
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.
"The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look."
"Always carry two spears." —Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs." —Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
"Show your enemies as much mercy as they would show you." —Surrak, the Hunt Caller
To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"The common folk call it the breaking of the crust or the spilling of fire. Geomancers call it target practice." —Ryda, geomancer
In the Skyfang Mountains, one misstep can mean the end of an entire clan.
Blood is holy to those whose god is War.
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all." —Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"
"The best spot to hook one is right behind the gills." —Rana Cloudwake, kor skyfisher
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
Progress comes at a price.
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
Idealism fits him better than his armor.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight." —Gideon Jura
Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not.
"In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back."
"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."
"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
"There is power in abandon, but far more in control." —Warden Hixus, to Kytheon
"Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness."
"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."
Its wings disturb more than air.
His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
The demon had flown past the reach of Erebos's whip but not the point of the sun god's spear.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"Arise. You have been anointed by the light. Go forth and fight without fear, for you shall be victorious."
Dwarves have an instinct for repair, an inherent understanding of how systems work, and a reputation for fearlessness. They're perfect candidates for the Fair's emergency response team.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
A ghoulcaller's playground.
"I love what they've done with the place." —Liliana Vess
Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.
Enter the Senate, the seat of justice and the foundation of Ravnican society.
Jort the Thunder-Mad spent his life perfecting a way to harness the power of the heavens.
Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more." —Oracle en-Vec
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"Gods don't die. They merely slumber." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was." —Koth of the Hammer
"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face." —Kordel the Cryptic
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law." —Isperia
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.
The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that." —Taani, berserker of Etlan
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel." —Priest's teaching
They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.
"Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes."
"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.
The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
"The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves." —Yolov, Simic bioengineer
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity." —Jarad
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void." —Razia, Boros archangel
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
"Knowledge is a stain that only instinct and ferocity can cleanse." —Drarg, wolfcaller
Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win."
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind." —Modruni, maro-sorcerer
"What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made." —Elvish riddle
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
If you hear it, it's too late.
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
"He has been to the heart of the wood. Did you truly expect to wield power over him?" —Oakhide druid
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
Few who encounter the strange, human-like grove leave once the lilting chorus of the dryads reaches their ears.
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.
"Hold the line, hold the li—" —General Srok, last words
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"See, the land itself raises an altar to the ascendancy of nature." —Mayael the Anima
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind.
"My skills are wasted here." —Juruk, Kalonian tracker
Nature doesn't walk.
The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Pharika has written her secrets on its bones so that only the worthy may discover them.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."
"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances." —Simic research notes
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.
"Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections."
No spot in nature is truly barren.
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire." —Halana of Ulvenwald
His roots reach deep and grip hard.
It claws at the earth in a vain attempt to reclaim what it once was.
A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
The infamous Ezuri commands the highest bounty the vedalken have ever placed upon an outlaw.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest." —Nissa Revane
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
"Hunters feed on the fear of their prey." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"I saw the devastation when the juggernauts crashed the walls of An Karras. Then I got to thinking." —Janji, sylvan druid
"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."
It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.
"Ruhan would never agree to such terms." —Ruhan of the Fomori
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
The correct answer to a barbarian's riddle is to choke on your cleverness and die.
The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
Suddenly, Eldo felt very alone.
"Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty." —Razia, Boros archangel
"Diplomacy has solved nothing. Only bloodspill can end this now. Call forth the warbringer." —Basandra, Battle Seraph
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Her hunger will not be denied.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled." —Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade.
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death." —Phyrexian progress notes
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
"Did you have a nice nap?" —Liliana Vess
Those who hear its roar perish. The lucky ones only feel its fetid breath.
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road.
"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad." —Sorin Markov
The waters of wisdom are as dust in the mouth of one who thirsts for power.
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible." —Gorghul, augur of skulls
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
"It's not the darkness I fear but dull and numbing shades of gray." —Sydri, galvanic genius
Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.
The winds of change have a mind of their own.
Sentience is its natural habitat.
"As long as I pull the strings, you will dance." —Tezzeret
"Do as I think, not as I do." —Jace Beleren
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.
"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it." —Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami." —Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must." —Kaalia of the Vast
Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other." —Tariel, Reckoner of Souls
She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy.
Perfect justice in service of a perfect will.
"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand." —Akroma, angelic avenger
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
"My family protects all families."
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
Its wings disturb more than air.
Infinitely powerless.
"Purge the damned, for they have no place among the righteous!" —Seeta of Thraben
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
"Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light."
"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives.
She protefts the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier." -Ob Nixilis
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."
Better scarves than scars.
"Others ask why the Eldrazi destroy. I ask why they preserve." -Ganda, Goma Fada deserter
"Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime."
"Rid me of this curse, witch, or die with me." -Garruk Wildspeaker
"I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir." -Daria
"If our foes will not listen to words, perhaps hooves and claws will make them take notice." -Seton, centaur druid
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead." -Jaya Ballard, task mage
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
All creatures have an inner fire. Releasing it can be dangerous.
"I don't know why the little one was so mad. He said to put him down, and I put him down."
No one knew if they'd been lurking under the sea all along, or if they'd been created by the Phyrexian overlay.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!" -Ricton, traveling merchant
There is always a toll to pay for passage.
"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned-at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
The will to return can overpower the will to survive.
Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.
The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.
"You must pay for your sin in blood."
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.
"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us-on you!"
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas." -Kiora
"I will never run out of new oceans to explore or new sea-dwellers to embrace as my own." -Kiora
The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
That which endures, survives.
"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her." -Daghatar the Adamant
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."
"Every choice alters the path of fate." -Sarkhan Vol
"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."
Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.
"She will come back to me."
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war." —Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching, trans. Feng and English
Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break.
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"
What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat.
Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds.
Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.
"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."
www.MagicTheGathering.com
"Such a lord as this-all virtues' height-Had never been, nor ever was again."
Impressing a judge is one thing. Delighting a child is another.
Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.
Beyond the chaos of Ghirapur lies a vibrant world where aether flows through nature.
Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.
Aether currents in the sky mirror water currents below, including the deadly rapids.
The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.
With the fate of Innistrad uncertain, some seek solace in remote areas.
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.
On Amonkhet, death is an ever-present part of life.
The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city crave only to spread their curse.
"The nature of this plane makes it almost too easy for me to command the dead." —Liliana Vess
Entire valleys have been formed by mummies laboring to find veins of lazotep.
Though they are held in high regard as symbols of the god Oketra, cats often lack her sense of solidarity.
"The fiercest loyalties are earned in battle." —Gideon Jura
The only relief in sight is a mirage.
Centuries of scouring sands have carved and polished the rocky terrain of the Shefet Desert.
"Don't you ever wonder what lies beyond the Hekma? Beyond the reach of the gods? Beyond the horns on the horizon?" —Samut, initiate of Tah crop
Many such monuments dot the wasteland known as Ifnir.
"The power that flows here cannot be denied. But where is the source?" —Nissa Revane
They are tasked with protecting the entrance to the embalming chambers.
"When the Second Sun rests between the horns on the horizon, so begins the Hour of Revelation. Then the Hour of Glory, the Hour of Promise, and finally the Hour of Eternity." —The Accounting of Hours
"The worthy shall hone a strong body to endure the boundless energies of the afterlife." —Monument inscription
Five gods, one purpose.
"The worthy shall respect the worthy. In the afterlife, all will stand united." —Monument inscription
Without the God-Pharaoh, there would be no Luxa. Without the Luxa, there would be no life.
"The worthy shall cultivate a nimble mind to perceive the glorious wonders that await them." —Monument inscription
Blades and bravery go hand in hand.
"The worthy shall rush to the God-Pharaoh's side with relentless zeal, rising to overcome every obstacle." —Monument inscription
"They might be dead, but these mummies are masters of their trade." —Jace Beleren
"The worthy shall strive for greatness. Supremacy in life leads to supremacy in the afterlife." —Monument inscription
"Your waters sustain the living and carry the dead. Mighty Luxa, let your power flow through me!"
If one of the anointed fails to serve with perfect obedience, the desert is always ready to receive it.
She can coil a breeze like a string around her finger—or twist it into a noose.
"I'll fight no more just for the honor of dying. The afterlife will have to wait."
"My mind is the calm in the midst of the storm, and my javelin the lightning."
"We do not swerve." —Tah-crop charioteer motto
Her words inspire action. Her actions inspire victory.
Her subtle smile is suffused with venom.
Many initiates believe it possesses secrets known only to Kefnet himself. Many have become meals trying to learn them.
"The Second Sun nears its destination! Let it light the way to ours!"
The forked tongue of the naga is sensitive to drifting scent trails from the past, present, and sometimes even the future.
"Instincts to guide. Strength to overcome."
Khenra are almost always born as twins. Their instinctual connection lends itself well to their preferred fighting style.
Initiates must train to resist the natural toxins they use as weapons.
There are no safe paths through the Trial of Strength.
Instinct yields the truest insight.
To prepare for the Trial of Strength, nagas shed their old skin—and with it their scars, their doubts, and their fears.
Surviving an encounter with it is proof enough that an initiate is ready for the Trial of Strength.
Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes.
They labor beside the anointed, constructing the vast monuments of Naktamun.
The viziers serving Rhonas, the god of strength, maintain the menagerie of animals employed during his trial.
Rhonas's monument is home to a wider variety of creatures than anywhere else in the city of Naktamun—a feature most initiates fail to appreciate.
Debate rages among the viziers whether comparing the kudu's horns to the God-Pharaoh's is blasphemy or reverence.
"Like fruits in the field, we will be harvested when the season is right."
"The lands of the God-Pharaoh are suffused with his breath."
"Rely too much on your weapons and watch your dreams shatter in your hands." —Rhonas, god of strength
"I'd like to say that it's our pet, but the reverse may be closer to the truth." —Ixor, initiate of Rhet crop
Nagas wielding twin daggers excel at the fighting technique known as the Bite of Rhonas.
Even gods have pets.
Few can overcome an assault of such aggressive serenity.
A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.
"If you fear poisons, it is because you are ignorant of them." —Hapatra, vizier of poisons
A sandwurm can lie in wait beneath the sands for years until the slightest tremor alerts it to the presence of prey.
The Broken Lands are littered with the remnants of civilizations long dead and infested by terrors very much alive.
"No one is born worthy."
"When all doubts have melted away, the worthy will meet the Hour of Eternity and earn a place at the God-Pharaoh's side." —The Accounting of Hours
"Everything in the trial has teeth. You will overcome them, or you will feed them." —Rhonas, god of strength
"If it is bigger, you must be faster. If it is stronger, you must be sharper. Anything less, and you will never seize a place in our God-Pharaoh's perfect afterlife." —Rhonas, god of strength
The only way to finish the Trial of Strength is with a basilisk scale in hand.
"The vizier of poisons teaches an unconventional kind of strength."
It falls to the gods to help all become worthy of the afterlife.
Minotaurs favor magic that manifests as weapons wrapped in flame.
Initiates in the heat of combat must be able to adapt to changing conditions.
Shoulder to shoulder until blade must turn against blade.
"Eternal glory awaits you, my child."
"You are undeserving of the afterlife. You will never feel the God-Pharaoh's embrace."
The sound of its plated tail beating on desert rocks is often mistaken for the footfalls of a much larger predator.
The Hekma may repel storms and monsters, but nothing holds back the heat of the suns.
"Combat is a form of worship, the clash of steel a solemn prayer." —Pytamun, initiate of Nef crop
"The expected way through the trial is far too tedious."
"In the Hour of Glory, the gods and the untested will prove their worth before the God-Pharaoh." —The Accounting of Hours
"If you do not feel the thrill of battle, alive like a flame, you will never triumph."
"Those wings are no advantage. I will pin them to the ceiling of the Hekma."
In the training ground known as the Gauntlet, initiates are pushed to practice more destructive techniques.
"Ashes can't be embalmed." —Neheb, initiate of Ahn crop
"When the time comes, only one of you will be honored by my spear." —Hazoret, god of zeal
With carrion a rarity in the Broken Lands, the hyenas that stalk the deserts hunt in packs.
Hazoret's gift is bestowed only once.
"Fight through it."
What the initiates face in the final trial is completely at Hazoret's discretion.
Never flinch. Never falter. Never fear.
"Allow zealous flames to light your path and the glory you seek will be revealed." —Hazoret, god of zeal
"My stride will break only against the twin points of Hazoret's spear."
"Some hid from the storm. I embraced it and learned its name."
The endless expanse of desert surrounding Naktamun sometimes yields threats that the gods themselves must answer.
Headlong is the only way to pass through the gate to the afterlife.
The fifth cartouche is the final affirmation of glory, granted only to the worthy dead.
"Dissent? Your gods can't even begin to comprehend the dissent that's about to happen here!" —Chandra Nalaar
"Oketra had our crop build an obelisk to prove the power of working together. But I am stronger without the weak."
To Hazoret, those who fight for her are her beloved children.
"To victory! To glory! To eternity!"
The arrows fell like fiery rain, and for a moment, the sky itself seemed to burn.
"Hesitation breeds dissension. To be worthy of the next life, you must never look back." —Anep, vizier of Hazoret
All but the gods fear the scorpion's sting.
Forever restless. Forever growing in number.
"Ambition requires clarity. If you have any doubts, they must be abandoned." —Bontu, god of ambition
Even in the relative safety of the city, there are places best left undisturbed.
"All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity." —Senifet, vizier of Bontu
"Wherever you are in the city, you can feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh. Take comfort in that." —Ukhat, vizier of initiation
"Death has seeped into every part of this plane. I can feel it on my skin and taste it like sand in my mouth." —Nissa Revane
"The face of mediocrity is wrapped in anointed linen. Aspire to a better end." —Epnokep, vizier of Bontu
"You may feel a slight sting."
"You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you." —Senifet, vizier of Bontu
"They are small, but they always want more. Learn from them." —Bontu, god of ambition
Its breath doesn't assault the senses. It pollutes the mind.
The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred.
"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
"True intentions lie not in the head but in the heart." —Bontu, god of ambition
It feeds on dry bones in the sand and desperate pleas in the wind.
"As a child I saw something walking in the distance, far beyond the Hekma—shadow-dark, and taller than the gods. Even now, it passes through my dreams." —Pytamun, initiate of Nef crop
In Amonkhet's ever-shifting sands, nothing stays buried for long.
Those who earn a glorious death are given the highest honor. They are carried on funeral barges through the gate to the afterlife.
As its parched flesh withers away, its malignant hunger grows.
"The more I see of this place, the less I want to." —Chandra Nalaar
The scouring sands of Shefet polish its carapace, and the ranks of the cursed fill its belly.
There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city.
"Look! That is why we must never waver. That is what awaits us if we fail." —Djeru, initiate of Tah crop
As Gideon watched the initiate murder his crop-mate, his admiration of the city of Naktamun gave way to horror.
They are the first to greet dissenters on their journey into exile.
Amonkhet's dual suns don't allow for the darkness of night, so bats are most active under the gloom of the frequent sandstorms.
"Not all in our crop deserve the afterlife. We must leave the unworthy behind, Samut." —Djeru, initiate of Tah crop
Only from the sky can one fully understand the horrors of the wastes and the wonder of the Hekma's protection.
"I have foreseen that you will not pass my trial."
"Time is like the Luxa River—though it flows in one direction, it can be diverted."
Initiates live and train with their crop, the unit that begins the trials together.
Some naga initiates move as silently as the suns' reflections on the water.
They are drawn by the brilliant blue glint of the mineral lazotep from the mines below.
The Trial of Knowledge challenges and broadens the minds of initiates.
"The best answers solve more than one riddle." —Kefnet, god of knowledge
The anointed work the mines without pause, their cartouches instilling them with tireless purpose.
Though the Luxa River brings life to Naktamun, it's not without dangers.
"I do things in my own time." —Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
The one thing the Gatewatch didn't expect to find on a plane ruled by Nicol Bolas was perfection.
Understanding is a matter of perspective.
"All questions will be answered during the Hour of Revelation."
Initiates need worry only about the trials. Everything else is in the hands of the gods.
"No amount of strength can help you overcome my trial. You must be ready to forgo your body and favor your mind." —Kefnet, god of knowledge
"The answers are here. This is the way through the trial."
"The God-Pharaoh created the Hekma to protect us from the horrors beyond and to surround us in his love."
Strong wings make strong winds.
"It usually appears placid, but don't be fooled. The Luxa River is a snake, and it can swallow you whole." —Neponem, vizier of Kefnet
Dependence on luck is anathema to Kefnet's rigorous studies. Those who hope to escape his maze by chance never succeed.
"If you want to truly test your survival skills, walk the Obelisk Path when the drakes are feeding." —Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
"Eyes see only what is possible. A trained mind can explore the impossible." —Kefnet, god of knowledge
To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.
It slithers through the senses, constricting consciousness and poisoning perceptions.
"How can there be doubt in the presence of such blessings?" —Ukhat, vizier of initiation
"Why so many questions?" —Temmet, vizier of Naktamun
Cartouches chronicle the initiates' achievements in the trials.
"Let me try one of Kefnet's puzzles. This one was too easy."
From the time they are hatchlings, river drakes are taught to pull the largest prey from the Luxa.
The banks of the Luxa River attract all manner of predator but only the most resilient of prey.
"When the Hour of Promise arrives, the God-Pharaoh will tear down the Hekma, for its protection will be needed no longer." —The Accounting of Hours
"You'll need all your strength for the trials to come."
"You will succeed as one or fail as many."
"Occasionally, there are those who refuse to appreciate all that the God-Pharaoh provides for us." —Temmet, vizier of Naktamun
"The dead perform all the work here—farming, building, teaching, even embalming their fellow mummies. The living need do nothing but train. What system could be more perfect?" —Temmet, vizier of Naktamun
"We each have a weight to carry on the road to the afterlife." —Oketra, god of solidarity
Aspiring to earn their place in the afterlife, acolytes train every day against those who fell short of that glory.
"Angels? My feelings remain unchanged." —Liliana Vess
"In the afterlife, I'll have no need of sleep. And until then, I have no time for it!"
"To see gods among the people, part of their daily lives . . . It's inspiring."
Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker.
Part of the acolytes' training is to walk along the Hekma, staring out at the ravenous horrors kept at bay by the God-Pharaoh's barrier.
"I feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh in the Second Sun, and I rise upon its rays."
"A single grain of sand is insignificant, but a sandstorm can reduce pyramids to dust. Stand with your crop. Become the storm." —Oketra, god of solidarity
To a trained warrior, there is scarcely a more potent weapon than patience.
"I'm never unarmed."
"Fly as an arrow through the trials, and never waver in your course." —Oketra, god of solidarity
"Why cling to these trappings? They are but tools and affectations. True wealth can be possessed only in the afterlife."
Rest sometimes requires the right prompting.
"When I wish to be strong, I train. When I wish to be wise, I study. When I wish to rest, I start again."
The pain of death is nothing compared to the pain of failure.
What the gods decree, the mummies enforce.
"The only question we need to ask is how best to fulfill the will of the God-Pharaoh."
"The gods here may walk among the people, but they are not with them." —Gideon Jura
"The power that flows here cannot be denied. But where is the source?" —Nissa Revane
"When the Second Sun rests between the horns on the horizon, so begins the Hour of Revelation. Then the Hour of Glory, the Hour of Promise, and finally the Hour of Eternity." —The Accounting of Hours
Five gods, one purpose.
"I'll fight no more just for the honor of dying. The afterlife will have to wait."
Her subtle smile is suffused with venom.
Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes.
The viziers serving Rhonas, the god of strength, maintain the menagerie of animals employed during his trial.
Even gods have pets.
A true reflection of nature: death fostering life.
The only way to finish the Trial of Strength is with a basilisk scale in hand.
The Hekma may repel storms and monsters, but nothing holds back the heat of the suns.
Hazoret's gift is bestowed only once.
"Fight through it."
What the initiates face in the final trial is completely at Hazoret's discretion.
"Death has seeped into every part of this plane. I can feel it on my skin and taste it like sand in my mouth." —Nissa Revane
"There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve."
As Gideon watched the initiate murder his crop-mate, his admiration of the city of Naktamun gave way to horror.
"I do things in my own time." —Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
Understanding is a matter of perspective.
"If you want to truly test your survival skills, walk the Obelisk Path when the drakes are feeding." —Etha, initiate of Rhet crop
To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point.
Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker.
"Fly as an arrow through the trials, and never waver in your course." —Oketra, god of solidarity
"The only question we need to ask is how best to fulfill the will of the God-Pharaoh."
"The gods here may walk among the people, but they are not with them." —Gideon Jura
"What's your plan?" Gideon asked. "Are you serious?" Chandra replied.
"We are the hands of the great trees, reaching out to ensnare what threatens their branches." —Elvish hunter
The quickest way to get through the jungle is to agitate a rhino and run in its wake.
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.
They make terrible pets … unless you don't like your other pets.
"You should have seen the look on both their faces." —Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?" —Dionus, elvish archdruid
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"Each day there are new reports of homes along Getander Pass and Hofsaddel falling to vampires of a more savage nature. I've even heard tell that Anje Falkenrath has returned. Please send whatever help you can." —Sterin Gorn, letter to Thalia
"Mindlessness is not weakness. When we are lost to hunger we are unstoppable." —Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror.
It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.
"Pathetic. You might as well have protected your treasures with a paper box and some string."
The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name.
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
"Day 31: I finally succeeded in my time reversal experiment! "Day 30: I might have a problem here." —Journal of the Prime Izmagnus
Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia.
Merfolk are best known for their subtle magic. But those who try to fight them in their own territory quickly realize that merfolk are hardly defenseless on the field of battle.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
Its hooves touch the earth only when a hero must rise.
"Bant sentries were called the Angel Line. They never faltered, and they were ready to die defending their position." —Elspeth Tirel
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
"There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy."
"Guilty."
2017 European Vintage Champion
2017 European Legacy Champion
A banner for bonds of blood or belief.
"This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust." —Nikya of the Old Ways
A savage cry with the power to shatter minds.
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.
"I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end."
"Run home, cur. I've already taken your master's head. Don't make me thrash you with it."
The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
"Clever folk build their homes near cloudcrowns. If a hawk or even just a faerie tries to swoop in, it'll get swatted from here to Cloverdell." —Calydd, kithkin farmer
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
He does not tolerate intruders.
Unhappy with the creation of the wolfir, Rorica broke with her order and led a crusade against the "reformed werewolves."
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
"There's more where that came from!"
"Now everyone knows what you are."
The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost.
"A massacre? It is a mercy we grant them. This way they won't freeze to death."
It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.
Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts.
"Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation."
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
It's never just one goblin.
The rumors are horrifying; the truth is worse.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
It doesn't matter if the mind or body cracks first. They both have to go.
"Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you." —Lady Azami
A skilled Izzet Chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next.
To look into its light is to meet the gaze of history.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law-strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
Simic biomancers don't concern themselves with guarding a gate. Their ever-present creations are enough to ward off trespassers.
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.
The Selesyna welcome all to help them heal the city's wounds. The price, however, is devotion to the guild and a selfless belief in Trostani.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
Beyond lies the culmination of all Izzet projects, a grand experiment led by the dragon Niv-Mizzet himself.
The scarred rubble around the gate is testament to past meetings of the Clans, summits that inevitably devolved into brawls.
Every part of the gate was reclaimed from forgotten ruins and imbued with new purpose by the Swarm.
In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
"If you wind up in one of mine, you can be sure as silver it will be your last." —Grafdigger Wulmer
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
The priests tried cursing it. The mages tried dispelling it. In the end, they all obeyed it.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
The Tattermunge gang has no words for the spell that whips their instinctual rage into a frenzy. They only know they like it.
"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade." —Trostani
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
"Remember by whose gift you ascend." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.
"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him." —Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.
Out of sight, into mind.
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.
"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance." —Tezzeret
"Hear that? Those notes mean we've arrived at Sunhome! Let our allies' hearts soar and our enemies' hearts shatter at the sound!" —Klattic, Boros legionnaire
All suns must set.
"The volcanic winds make a maze of the skies of Jund. If we mean to invade, we must first learn their invisible paths."
Even the most battle-hardened soldiers pause in her presence for a moment of introspection.
The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
For the Rakdos, "suicidal charge" and "good showmanship" are one and the same.
"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."
"Birth and death are both reversible." —Nicol Bolas
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead." —Razia
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design." —Momir Vig
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Mirko Vosk hunted anyone with knowledge of the maze, draining the chances of the other guilds.
He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying.
"The Simic can grow anything out of a puddle of sludge. I just hope they never join forces with the Golgari." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"Touched by moroii" —Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
"We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born." —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
"Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing." —Narbulg Nine Fingers
Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity.
The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them.
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?" —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.
"Your blood is quite pleasing. A pity there's not enough for both of us."
You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you.
"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits." —Sign outside Dinrova Building
"Everyone deserves a day in court."
There is always a greater power.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.
Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch.
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
They fight for their home with more loyalty than any conscript.
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!" —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
"Two-faced" is an understatement.
The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways.
The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.
"For every one that falls, ten shall rise. The revelation of New Phyrexia is at hand." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"Peace will come to Innistrad, but only after all abominations have been dealt with, one by one."
"Always carry two spears." —Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world." —Uros, Pendelhaven elder
"Give me enough refuse and mana and I will summon an ooze that can engulf all of Ravnica." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
The Orzhov clergy would never cross its path, but sending thrull couriers to do so is cheap and entertaining.
"I am the simplifier, the root that drags all artifice to earth." —Seal inscription
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.
When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.
"Krosa the great. Krosa the enduring. Look to the forest, and it will share its bounty." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
If a spriggan's eyes are larger than its stomach, it has ways to remedy the situation.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing." —Seton, centaur druid
"To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest." —Gamelen, Citanul elder
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
"So many oppose us, but we are the reed that bends without breaking."
"Size alone does not guarantee survival." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."
The horror lurched about like a puppet from a madman's nightmare, squeezing the life from its own kind.
"Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!"
Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end.
"The maaka remain loyal to us in this time of strife. We don't even have to feed them—our enemies do." —Nedja, Gruul shaman
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?" —Chandra Nalaar
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
It came as a cruel answer to the farmers' prayers.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Some Akroans make the dangerous pilgrimage to the volcanic temples of Purphoros, where oracles known as flamespeakers glean omens from lava.
The larger the crowd, the harder it is for them to run away.
"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme." —Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
A goblin raid is a delicate gambit—a blend of stealth, precision, and screaming death.
Nothing evens the odds like a little lightning.
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.
As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment.
"I admit, I am a creature of the city. The sights, the nightly excitement, the abundance of fine drink . . ."
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discreet to dissolve one's victim entirely." —Szadek
"Wisdom from the past is best gathered directly from the source."
"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."
It took three years for it to occur to him to use the chain as a weapon, but once it did, he made up for lost time.
Innistrad is a place where dreams invade the mind and mere shadows exact a terrible toll.
To the soldier, war is famine; to the scavenger, a feast.
Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.
After the awakening of the Eldrazi, some vampires took it upon themselves to remind the others where their loyalty should lie.
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
On still nights you can hear its rotted teeth grinding tirelessly on scavenged bones.
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
There came a rush, a sudden fire in the mind. Then the two saw only the sooty fog of madness, heard only the crackling of their last thoughts burning away.
The shadow of the candle looms tall even as its light grows dim.
"You will fully understand fear when you discover it is the final thing you put your faith in." —Nicol Bolas
Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
It rides to a chorus of whispers that are more felt than heard.
"Progress is our great inheritance, perfection our ultimate destination."
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid." —Lumi, goatherd
His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
Time is a marvelous plaything.
Each monitor is given an eye for each spire it is to guard.
"There's a hole in your plan." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection.
"The secret entrance should be near."
"The best denials are simply that: a beginning and end unchanged, a dream with no memory."
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in." —Sved, fisherman of Nephalia
A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.
Sometimes it's useful to take a break from existence.
Because of their capricious nature, faeries can serve as living lenses for disruptive magic.
The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.
One breath of the geist turns veins to rivers of ice and freezes hearts midbeat.
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
"We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived." —Azure creed
"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die." —Oracle en-Vec
"You see a bird, an oak, a packbeast. I see the potential for an army." —Lalia, Selesnya dryad
"Guilds be damned. We can fend for ourselves." —Vennick of the Gateless
The relic's purpose? Its design? Whatever the intent, it is now a mere curiosity that breaks up the horizon.
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."
With clarity of vision comes clarity of function.
At his side, humble beasts become weapons more deadly than sharpened steel.
Each spike is poisoned—the trapmaker's idea of mercy.
With Phyrexia's victory at hand, each sect began perfecting its vision.
His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.
Those who seek to disturb the harmony of life will see their instruments taken from them.
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
"In my moment of death, I had a vision of the world, dark and unwelcoming. I wanted to hide in the deepest meander, but the light pulled me back."
"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."
Its wings disturb more than air.
"What root and branch cannot reach, our winged friends will attend to." —Zunak, Selesnya strategist
"Flesh is a betrayal of the self."
The virtues of knighthood are best taught in the field.
Aether currents in the sky mirror water currents below, including the deadly rapids.
Tezzeret's command of living metal has nothing to do with intricate gearcraft or aether supplies.
Its elaborate designs reveal secrets of aether's flow.
"You can't hope to comprehend the plans that are in motion." —Tezzeret
Beyond the chaos of Ghirapur lies a vibrant world where aether flows through nature.
"I will go where the lion-man leads."
"This is about more than aether or inventions. Tezzeret's schemes must be stopped!" —Ajani Goldmane
A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others.
Most of the constructs the renegades used against the Consulate weren't originally intended for combat. But some didn't require much modification.
"Before we can destroy our enemies, we must find them. We must peer into every wretched hovel and every teeming market." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
"A perfect fusion of nature and artifice." —Irsi, Kujar gardener
Rules and rails are made to be broken.
"A few drops of this, and the trickiest problems simply melt away." —Thamaz, Weldfast inventor
The Consulate prizes innovation when it is dependable and replicable.
Renegade supply lines are, by necessity, mobile and difficult to disrupt.
"We have safe houses in every zone, but you'll never find one without this."
The Scrappers, an underground group with a passion for automaton brawls, had renegade leanings even before the Consulate's crackdown. It didn't take long for them to lend their best brawlers to the conflict.
"It is finished. Now the real work can begin." —Tezzeret
"Peace? Its sole purpose is fear." —Saheeli Rai
"One look at this glorious item convinced me that Kaladesh deserved my full attention. Sure enough, my time here has yielded exquisite fruit." —Tezzeret
The Consulate had access to thousands of innovative devices displayed at the Inventors' Fair. A few small changes transformed some of them from marvels of ingenuity to instruments of oppression.
"You want to know what we are fighting for? Look at the wonder in that child's eyes." —Pia Nalaar
"One head watches for Consulate enforcers. The other watches for renegade thieves." —Crime Lord Gonti
"If you can build it, we can move it." —Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant
"Inspiration is found by looking outward." —Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter
"We've been through a lot together."
Ghirapur's most celebrated inventors have been immortalized in clockwork.
A mystery in metal.
A tool to see the unseen.
A dream of fire lies coiled inside, waiting for its glorious awakening.
The renegades mounted an aether disruptor aboard a lightweight thopter to destroy Tezzeret's Planar Bridge.
Despite the magic that sustains Gonti's life, the crime lord is often described as heartless.
"They never tire, they never complain, and they never ask questions. Build more." —Ivash, Consulate inventor
"The most harmonious designs are based on relationships found in nature." —Venand Kapur, the Gearherder
"All buildings are subject to search. Resistance will be punished." —Enforcer-Chief Ranaj
"Our watchtowers are well positioned. Why don't we arm them?" —Enforcer-Chief Ranaj
"It's like they planted another Bastion right in the middle of the harbor." —Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant
Duplication is neither thievery nor flattery. It is efficiency.
"The Consulate sought to crush us. Let's give them a taste of their own medicine." —Venkat Dasai, renegade commander
When you have taught an automaton how to build others of its kind, it is a small step to make it build itself.
The streets of Ghirapur have become dangerous. It's good to have a dependable companion.
"Let's err on the side of glorious mayhem."
"After I examine your cargo and check your papers, you can be on your way."
"It's natural, it's all around us, and it's there for the taking. Just try and tell me what I'm doing is wrong."
Many veterans of the Ovalchase racetrack turned their talents to the renegade cause.
"This fight belongs to us all."
The vibrant forest of Peema is awash with aether. Its animals are stronger, faster, and more aggressive than their counterparts elsewhere.
"Until all have found their place, I will keep watch."
"If the Consulate has abandoned restraint, so too shall the wilds." —Surash, keeper of the Cowl
Elvish weavers use spidersilk to make everything from tapestries to rappelling ropes.
"It was right here a second ago . . ."
"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."
"Each creature holds a solution to a problem, a lesson to be learned." —Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter
It is the nature of the strong to survive.
"The Great Conduit connects us all."
"It is folly to believe your precious inventions will endure. All things return to the soil." —Nirav, Tirahar elder
"I do not need to pierce your heart to still its beating."
"Regards from Peema." —Rishkar
The best engineers recognize when a problem has already been solved.
"I do not ask you to be tame. I only ask you to be true." —Rishkar, Peema renegade
"It was made, yes, but that does not mean it cannot grow."
"If nothing else, the Inventors' Fair taught us that we're only beginning to discover aether's true potential." —Kershan Danil, Highspire artisan
In the cellars beneath Narnam House, a strange and deadly garden grows.
"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there." —Ajani Goldmane
"I will not rest until every vestige of the Consulate—every banner, flag, and standard—has fallen."
Subtlety is not a necessary part of sabotage.
"The wild tangle of the Cowl provides sanctuary to life that watched the first buildings rise."
Its frill inspired the design of efficient aether collectors.
Gremlins are loyal to nothing but their next meal.
Gremlins are loyal to nothing but their next meal.
The residents of Embraal were never known for finesse, just for getting things done.
Perfect for getting through to the consuls.
The tools of invention became the weapons of revolution.
"Being an inventor means knowing how to use the tools at hand to make something great—or to bring it down." —Pia Nalaar
Illegal street races turned out to be perfect practice for avoiding Consulate patrols.
"I've made some fine acquisitions of late, so I'm planning to make commensurate improvements to my security systems. I have a consultant coming tomorrow." —Kurna Majan, Luminary League
"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."
"Hit where it hurts, and always hit first."
Pia's passion was directed at the big picture—at making real, lasting change.
"Catch me if you can."
Travelers to Lathnu, high on the Devra Cliffs, need not fear the political strife of Ghirapur . . . but they have other dangers to worry about.
"I was made for this!"
Aboard her ship, the Dragon's Smile, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.
Gremlins can change from pest to problem to plague in the span of a moment.
In the hold of the Heart of Kiran, Chandra answered Dovin Baan's sabotage with an explosive retort.
"Will you be strong and stand with me?"
The dragons perching in Freejam's towers symbolize the zone's fierce independence.
When fighting spilled over into Giant's Walk, the aether weapons and swooping airships angered the normally placid creatures.
"A well-made wrench is a versatile, indispensable tool."
"I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments." —Karavin, renegade saboteur
Chandra was driven by her anger, directed particularly at the man who had taken her father from her.
"The Consulate pushed me to my limit, darling, and this is the result."
"The time for subtlety is over, darling."
Some aetherborn joined the rebellion for profit, others for the sake of their freedom, still others for revenge.
There is no shortage of illegal salvage in Ghirapur, nor of those who are willing to profit from it.
When the salvage team brought in the shattered gearhulk, a wave of excitement swept through the renegade foundry.
You can't fight what you can't find.
Comrades in life. Comrades in death.
"Death might come tomorrow, but today—today I am alive."
As the rebellion spread, renegade ingenuity outpaced the Consulate's greatest fears.
"I am confident that all our enterprises can benefit from this little revolution."
A few aetherborn have discovered a way to sustain their own existences at the cost of an insatiable hunger for the life essence of other beings.
Renegades run the gamut from lofty sages to petty thieves.
Its buzzing is easily mistaken for the hum of a thopter's wings.
"Success is found where others fear to look." —Ara, renegade smuggler
"I didn't survive that crash just so I could fall to the likes of you."
Living so close to death gives the aetherborn an unusual perspective on risk.
Bitter the bite of a demon's steel, and deep the abyss it opens.
"This is bigger than you. All of you." —Tezzeret
"You never know what day might be your last."
"You never know what day might be your last."
Small aeronaut societies like the Wind-Kin had little to lose by siding with the renegades, and much to gain.
"The tools of the past will help us forge the future."
"You can tell me what I want to know, or you can talk to the Chief of Compliance. Why don't you make it easy on yourself?"
Escapes should always be daring.
Shipwrecks do wonders for the local fauna, providing both shelter and aether.
Conflict breeds opportunity.
A hermit crab goes through many shells in its lifetime, and not all are natural in origin.
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
"Let's just broaden its surveillance lens."
"It is fascinating to see how the people of this plane replicate magical techniques without a natural gift. Also frustrating." —Jace Beleren
"Too little, too late. The machine is in motion." —Tezzeret
"Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city." —Dovin Baan
The daredevil racers of the Derby Crows, long at odds with the Consulate, were quick to join the renegades in open revolt.
"When everything hangs on a single moment, be sure you choose the right moment." —Jace Beleren
"Slow the Consulate with whatever you've got!" —Jasi Ganin, master siphoner
"As a kid, I dreamed of flying on those wild drakes. They inspired me to build wings of my own." —Nadja Cloudtoucher, aerowright
For some of Ghirapur's aerowrights, building thopters is a byproduct of larger construction efforts.
As renegade forces closed in on the Aether Spire, Consulate blockades failed one by one.
"How easily your flames are quenched." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
"This armor transcends the limitations of mere flesh and bone."
"Get out of my way."
"The echo of silence is music to my ears."
"To survive up here, I've learned when to use my harpoon and when to just enjoy the view." —Kadhu, skywhaler
The Consulate's eyes—unblinking, unsleeping—are everywhere.
"It's important to always have the right tool for the job. This one is for picking my teeth."
"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
"I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur."
Dwarves' tools are priceless heirlooms handed down through generations.
Many airship captains keep pets that share their love of the sky.
The loyalty of a felidar is hard won but worth the effort.
A living invention born of a grand design.
"With spy thopters all around, how can the consuls be so blind to Tezzeret's manipulations?" —Gideon Jura
"A key weakness in the design is its vulnerability to repeated, forceful blows."
"It seems there's even better hunting down here."
"It came to rest upon the angel's arm, and then the weight of their gazes fell upon me." —Aeronaut's journal
"Go forth and cause trouble, my little one!"
"There is no greater coward than one who believes in nothing."
"The workshops are silent. Our creations have been seized. They have killed what made us alive." —Pia Nalaar
While hunting aether, a gremlin may ignore other stimuli, including threats to its own life.
The "leaking spire" stands for liberation from Consulate control.
Headquartered at the Bastion of the Honorable, the Consulate's enforcers are charged with the impossible task of keeping the peace.
"This little critter can turn all of you to scrap in under thirty seconds! Come on, who wants to be the first to go? Try and stop me!"
"Sure, you know the law. But I know the streets."
"Supplies inbound. Keep that pressure on."
Gremlins in the wild feed on nodules of pure aether, which are also prized by miners.
The Consulate recruits its best pilots from the League of Aeronauts. Many go on to command entire fleets.
A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others.
"It is finished. Now the real work can begin." —Tezzeret
"Peace? Its sole purpose is fear." —Saheeli Rai
"One look at this glorious item convinced me that Kaladesh deserved my full attention. Sure enough, my time here has yielded exquisite fruit." —Tezzeret
"If you can build it, we can move it." —Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant
"Inspiration is found by looking outward." —Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter
Ghirapur's most celebrated inventors have been immortalized in clockwork.
The renegades mounted an aether disruptor aboard a lightweight thopter to destroy Tezzeret's Planar Bridge.
Despite the magic that sustains Gonti's life, the crime lord is often described as heartless.
"Until all have found their place, I will keep watch."
"Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands."
"Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free."
"Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there." —Ajani Goldmane
"I will not rest until every vestige of the Consulate—every banner, flag, and standard—has fallen."
Subtlety is not a necessary part of sabotage.
Its frill inspired the design of efficient aether collectors.
"Being an inventor means knowing how to use the tools at hand to make something great—or to bring it down." —Pia Nalaar
"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."
"Let's add just a bit more stopping power."
Pia's passion was directed at the big picture—at making real, lasting change.
"Catch me if you can."
"I was made for this!"
Aboard her ship, the Dragon's Smile, Kari follows no one's rules but her own.
The dragons perching in Freejam's towers symbolize the zone's fierce independence.
"The Consulate pushed me to my limit, darling, and this is the result."
"The time for subtlety is over, darling."
There is no shortage of illegal salvage in Ghirapur, nor of those who are willing to profit from it.
"This is bigger than you. All of you." —Tezzeret
"Let's just broaden its surveillance lens."
"Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city." —Dovin Baan
"How easily your flames are quenched." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
"Get out of my way."
"The echo of silence is music to my ears."
"To survive up here, I've learned when to use my harpoon and when to just enjoy the view." —Kadhu, skywhaler
"It's important to always have the right tool for the job. This one is for picking my teeth."
"As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?"
"I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur."
A living invention born of a grand design.
"The workshops are silent. Our creations have been seized. They have killed what made us alive." —Pia Nalaar
The "leaking spire" stands for liberation from Consulate control.
Gremlins in the wild feed on nodules of pure aether, which are also prized by miners.
"More rope may not be necessary." -Kep, Lunarch inquisitor
Uncertainty has its own allure.
At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress.
The Soul of the World has returned.
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
"Let your heels point you home."—Ancient blessing
So great is his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
"This fight belongs to us all."
The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence.
It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.
"I'd stand back if I were you."
Impressing a judge is one thing. Delighting a child is another.
"What's your plan?" Gideon asked. "Are you serious?" Chandra replied.
Uncertainty has its own allure.
"More rope may not be necessary." —Kep, Lunarch inquisitor
They all thought her dream was just pie in the sky.
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!" —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"This is the price of being last in the food chain. We must keep our places of beauty hidden away instead of displayed for all to see." —Hildin, priest of Avacyn
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new.
The Thran learned to capture mana, but power inevitably escapes its bonds.
It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime.
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.
Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another.
Krond, the personification of the dawn's light, lives to exact justice on his nemesis Vela.
The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.
A killing machine from birth.
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.
As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
A match for any army—even its own.
The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves.
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.
Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.
When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.
Nature doesn't walk.
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.
"Our unity unmasks your deceit."
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core.
On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach.
"Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce."
He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.
In abandoned corners of Ravnica, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned.
"From in here, everything looks like dinner."
"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion." —Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges.
They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?" —Edra, merfolk sovereign
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.
Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.
About halfway to the target, Snukk vowed that he had been tricked for the last time.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom." —Spear-Tribe teaching
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing." —Liliana Vess
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid." —Lumi, goatherd
"I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough." —Ambassador Laquatus
Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground.
Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.
That the Tolarian mists parted for the drakes was warning enough to stay away.
"Yes, she is made of pure belief—but I hardly see why that makes her unique." —Reith, master illusionist
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
"Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them." —Miotri, auratouched mage
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings." —Josuri
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
When an order for griffin barding comes in, blacksmiths prepare their forges for months of exacting work. They know griffins always detect imperfections and never haggle.
Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.
We shall suffer turmoil equal to that which we have wrought, whether in this life or the next.
The first vine shows the others where to grow.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
"I don't have time for you right now." -Teferi
"End this. What I seek is far greater." -Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"Only when we journey into the unknown can we find the impossible." -Cyrul the Wanderer
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .
Occupancy of the den changes from night to night as boggart gangs fight for control of a place they aren't willing to simply eat.
As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
The youths of Rishada's marketplace are always ready for a quick footrace.
Bottom feeders sometimes rise to the top.
Good riddance.
Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone.
Death in form and function.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the rack was once his most feared creation.
The worst part isn't the pain, or the smell, or even the fear of death. It's hearing the clatter of bone on stone and knowing the bones are yours.
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"You may want to hold your breath." —Kellyg, merrow aquitect
There is always a rabble to be roused.
"A massacre? It is a mercy we grant them. This way they won't freeze to death."
A savage cry with the power to shatter minds.
He does not tolerate intruders.
The rumors are horrifying; the truth is worse.
Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
Cao Cao's cousin, Cao Ren was was known throughout the three kingdoms as the fiercest of warriors.
Sima Yi fought for four generations of the Cao family before his own grandson became emperor and united the three kingdoms.
"...It was Pang Ton's boat-connecting scheme That let Zhou Yu accomplish his great deed."
"A man, and such a fool! I, a woman, will fight them for you." —Lady Zhurong to her husband Meng Huo, before leading an army against the Shu
Lu Su served as an intermediary between the Wu and Shu kingdoms until Zhou Yu's death in 210, when he became Wu's supreme commander.
Sister to Sun Quan and wife to Liu Bei, Lady Sun often felt her loyalty to both tested.
"Virile in war, he kept the north in fear; His prodigies subdued the western sphere."
"A splendid talent, admired of all men! His folly lay in serving Cao Cao's power."
The more you pay for the lesson, the better you'll remember it.
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
"What was taken shall be restored." —Arathel, elvish queen
Few things are more valuable than time or money—and Leovold has plenty of both.
"The dim resort to violence, for which the nimble prepare." —Leovold, emissary of Trest
"Everything comes with a price. Especially revolution." —Grenzo, dungeon warden
Idle chatter becons many an attentive ear.
Good health beckons many a vigorous follower.
"Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing."
"All will know of your crimes."
"What weapon will you bear against one who's mastered them all?"
Ground bones, broken glass, and splintered shipwrecks make up the sands of his shores.
"The veil of death hides little from our kind."
Flavorful aromas beckon many a salivating maw.
Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand.
Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul.
At his behest the Kami War began to regain That Which Was Taken.
"I give my blood, my life, all I have in exchange for victory."
Few things are truly "lost" at sea.
In the end, the lights fade, the land withers, and only the dead and vile remain.
For goblins, quantity is quality.
Spilled blood always begets more of the same.
All things will crumble, whether by time or by force.
Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors.
"My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond."
The finest soldiers aren't worth a whit without a set of hands to lead them and a set of eyes to guide them.
Dinner and politics don't mix.
The justice of dragons demands more than just an eye for an eye.
Death arrives on tattered wings and stolen bones.
"I'll show you what you truly desire."
Self-reflection is not without its perils.
"There is no justice when some profit and others go without."
"...Is it over?"
With such great footsteps, everything is within walking distance.
A shining symbol of Paliano's true ruler—ambition.
"Fuses? We have more than enough! Now … which one was it?" —Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer
With no flesh to tire or resolve to falter, the machines soon became the Academy's preferred trainers.
"Look what we fought for. Look what we built together."
"I'm sure we can come to an arrangement."
"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."
"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."
She bears the greatest burden of all: that of knowing.
"How does one become a self-taught genius? Naturally, it requires brains."
Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope.
Beneath crashing waves lies an ocean of secrets waiting to be explored.
"It lives … IT LIVES!" —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"My sword is pledged to the defense of this city, not to the throne or this usurper."
The pounding of his followers' hearts matched the beat of his hooves, and their voices echoed his bellows.
The earth shook in support of their cause, offering a champion of its own.
Survival is a constant competition from which both sides can benefit.
"Sit. Fetch. Devastate."
The market is now closed.
"You burn. I'll pillage."
Inscribed with runes that predate the dragon, its horns possess their own ancient magic.
"Infiltrate and infuriate!" —Goblin Espionage League motto
Forever after, she lived in fear of the madness reclaiming her.
"Keeping order is a task too important to relinquish in death." —Abrado, Custodi priest
"These eyes have shown me the flaws of flesh."
"Those who seize power must have the means to hold it." —Queen Marchesa
"To spend your life seeking, only to find regret upon achieving … this is the most delicious irony of all." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of bureaucracy.
"Marchesa's poison is delivered by more than daggers." —Adriana, Captain of the Guard
Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
For the right price, he'll unlock your path to the throne.
No duelist is without equal in Paliano.
"Even your blade knows who will triumph here." —Atraxa, Praetors' Voice
"These halls are sacred. You will be silent."
"Greed, rage, and bloodlust all lead to death at the hands of those who keep their heads." —Sergeant Eyra
The best techniques outlive their creators.
"I gladly offer my weapon and my life to the glory of my sovereign."
Before a cause can have supporters, it has to have a voice.
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.
"One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection." —Adriana, Captain of the Guard
"Rulers come and go, but my allegiance belongs to the throne."
"Look what we fought for. Look what we built together."
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas." —Kiora
On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
That which endures, survives.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
"Let your heels point you home." —Ancient blessing
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull." —Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
History has buried its treasures deep.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
A Planeswalker's chronicle spans worlds and civilizations, each page a lifetime.
Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains." —Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing." —Melira, sylvok outcast
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
As it spins, dead voices shriek in an ever-increasing cacophony, rending the mind asunder.
"Our glorious infection has taken hold." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, the Pretender
A body clad in steel reflects a warrior's resolve.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was." —Koth of the Hammer
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
Dimir mages put the lanterns to good use, creating shapeshifters and sleeper agents from mana foreign to them.
The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations.
"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not." —Tezzeret
Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.
"Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind." —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
When night fell, the plane itself was scarred.
"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."
"Don't be so quick to reclaim the thawing lands. They might have acquired a taste for freedom." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."
"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that." —Taani, berserker of Etlan
Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts.
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone." —Rakka Mar
A savage hunter with a prince's bearing.
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
"As long as my hand holds a blade, there's hope for a pure Mirrodin once again."
"Do not try to make sense of the chimera. Impossibility is its habitat." —Kydele, prophet of Kruphix
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"Everyone has a price."
When it awoke, it shook the plane with the thunder of its craving.
"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."
Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .
Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate.
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"Life can be found in all things, even things unnatural." —Multani, maro-sorcerer
"From shards and splinters I call forth my living horde." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.
"When they covered the world in city, all they did was give themselves nowhere to run."
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
One quiet word sets off the stampede.
If you hear it, it's too late.
Any creature on a druid's shoulder is his family, any land under his feet his home.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
Fight with a friend at your back, steel in your hands, and magic in your veins. —Quirion creed
All are prey to the eyes of the wild.
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
Even baloths fear its feeding time.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride." —Golran, dragonscale captain
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
The first vine shows the others where to grow.
The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the incompleat.
Goblins generally have two possessions: one per hand.
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.
"I used to joke that he had been exiled for being too smart. Now I know why he never laughed." —Glissa Sunseeker
In a wave of spells called the Cursemute, Avacyn cleansed the world with divine fire.
Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down.
"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind." —Houn, Jeskai elder
Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
"You'll bend to my will—with or without your precious sanity."
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"Greet death with sword in hand."
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
Life is such a fragile thing.
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.
There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
"The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death."
Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
"The most enlightened mages create beauty from violence." —Medomai the Ageless
"The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key."
"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits." —Nekusar, the Mindrazer
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
"Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are." —Alexi, zephyr mage
Esper mages devised their weapons to be so devastating that war seemed unnecessary.
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will.
An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork.
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless." —Akroma, angelic avenger
We shall suffer turmoil equal to that which we have wrought, whether in this life or the next.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
The Rakdos believe that all are eager to join their revels, even when told otherwise.
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
Worse than the years of aging was the burden of memory. The young monk lost his youth and gained a vicarious lifetime of hardship and woe.
As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
An overwhelming sense of calm accompanies the gryffs that wheel above the roofs of Gavony.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself." —Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean
Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates.
"By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place."
"Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war." —Dravin, Gruul deserter
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
"Fuses? We have more than enough! Now . . . which one was it?" —Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer
With no flesh to tire or resolve to falter, the machines soon became the Academy's preferred trainers.
Beneath crashing waves lies an ocean of secrets waiting to be explored.
"How does one become a self-taught genius? Naturally, it requires brains."
"Look what we fought for. Look what we built together."
She bears the greatest burden of all: that of knowing.
"It lives . . . IT LIVES!" —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world."
"Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir."
Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope.
The pounding of his followers' hearts matched the beat of his hooves, and their voices echoed his bellows.
The earth shook in support of their cause, offering a champion of its own.
Survival is a constant competition from which both sides can benefit.
Inscribed with runes that predate the dragon, its horns possess their own ancient magic.
"Infiltrate and infuriate!" —Goblin Espionage League motto
Forever after, she lived in fear of the madness reclaiming her.
"To spend your life seeking, only to find regret upon achieving . . . this is the most delicious irony of all." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
"These eyes have shown me the flaws of flesh."
"We give the audience what they want." —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
"Even your blade knows who will triumph here." —Atraxa, Praetors' Voice
Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence.
The sea filled the villagers' nets until the day it cast its own.
Exhale, and let the winds carry your soul for all eternity.
The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment.
"Greed, rage, and bloodlust all lead to death at the hands of those who keep their heads." —Sergeant Eyra
The best techniques outlive their creators.
2016 North American Legacy Champion
"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates." -Ghoulcaller Gisa
2016 North American Vintage Champion
2016 European Vintage Champion
2016 European Legacy Champion
Rishada is the gateway to free trade-but the key will cost you.
Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered.
Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds.
"You tread upon the land all the time, yet you seem dismayed when it moves to step on you." —Nissa Revane
"You tread upon the land all the time, yet you seem dismayed when it moves to step on you." —Nissa Revane
The Inventors' Renaissance came on the heels of the Great Aether Boom, hiking demand for raw materials of every kind.
"For freedom! For fame! For fire!"
"This is just my warm-up."
There's so much more to Ghirapur than can be accessed by traditional roads.
Ghirapur is a beacon of inspiration, attracting the most brilliant minds on Kaladesh.
Where high society and dark opportunity intersect.
Life inspires technology, which expands life's domain.
A retreat to nature can inspire even the most jaded inventor.
It powers the dreams of Ghirapur.
Sometimes the smallest things make the biggest difference.
"Our creations are more than mere things. They have life in them, little bits of ourselves." —Saheeli Rai
The avant-garde among Ghirapur's inventors disregard the Consulate's safety standards completely.
"Good morning, children. Please open your aether valves and ignite your gauntlets." —Rakib, Ghirapur schoolteacher
"I did not think I would understand the cold filigree creatures of this world, but they too are governed by the laws of nature." —Nissa Revane
It sees itself in all of its creations.
Some machines refuse to accept their own obsolescence.
To understand Kaladesh, one must first understand how aether and invention flow together through the great Aether Cycle.
Not a mote of dust escapes the dutiful cleaners that keep the exclusive Prakhata Club immaculate.
Do not be so caught up in keeping track of time that you forget to make use of it.
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
It'll either crash or win the race. Possibly both.
Some say tales of the Narnam greenhouse are told to scare the children, but every tale grows from a seed of truth.
It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
The Iron League prides itself on its metal-shaping techniques.
This detailed model allows the edificers to examine the city from every angle.
Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld.
"It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!" —Chammi, curio vendor
Inspiration leads to design.
Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need.
"I like that Tezzeret. He has vision the other judges don't. He sees the potential in what we're making here." —Faiz, inventor
Elegant filigree birds perch along the eleven bridges that cross Canal Dukhara.
Progress leads to inspiration.
All skyships entering or leaving the fairgrounds must pass through the security checkpoint.
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
The Consulate's automaton bank contains only the most impressive specimens.
It glides around the city, a sublime combination of elegance and utility.
Design leads to progress.
While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary.
Was it just lonely, or was some form of evolution inevitable?
The first tentative flaps are like a song to his soul.
He's set to compete in every race at the Fair, and he plans to win them all.
"I'd stand back if I were you."
All she touches turns to well-oiled, delicately calibrated, perfectly balanced gold.
He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors.
"There are many reasons we invent, of which survival is not the least."
"For years, I studied the aethersphere from afar, but it was not until I touched the aether for myself that I came to know the power contained in the swirling sky."
"Don't waste my time with trifles. Bring me works of art, and I will make you rich."
All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout.
Part feline, part primate, all trouble.
"I opened my mind to the immensity of the wonders around me. It was only then that I could see the Great Conduit." —Rashmi, aether-seer
"We all began in nature, and nature is where we belong."
As unpredictable as aether, and just as hard to contain.
The drake flew true. The arrow flew truer.
"Creation without connection to nature is just manufacture."
Even now, Shaila's descendants proudly occupy the greenway that she refused to relinquish to the Consulate.
Connected as artificer and invention, bonded as rider and steed.
"Inspiration is reciprocal: we all have a responsibility to each other to create."
Inspired by the thorns and brambles of the untamed wilds, elvish armor is both beautiful and formidable.
Many elves incorporate the beauty of nature into their inventions. Very few capture its savagery.
It won't be small forever.
"They say Head Judge Tezzeret will be reviewing every invention at the Fair. I made sure to build something that will stand out." —Jehvani, Vahadar artificer
Every leaf, tree, and building in Kujar has been placed to achieve maximum harmony, in accordance with the elvish philosophy known as the Great Conduit.
Natural evolution is often at odds with industrial progress.
Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders.
The louder the elephant trumpeted, the more the crowd cheered. And the more the crowd cheered . . .
Sanctions, mandates, regulations . . . These things mean nothing to the natural world.
Consulate guards who pursue fleeing renegades into the Cowl often become lost—occasionally permanently—in the city's wildest greenbelt.
Never before have there been so many brilliant minds and wondrous inventions in one place. Denizens from every corner of Kaladesh will flock to the once-in-a-lifetime Inventors' Fair.
Those who move harmoniously with the flow of aether can channel the power of the natural world.
"I've never seen a world where aether weaves through every aspect of nature."
Were she not a judge, she'd win the division herself.
Next to her designs, life seems like a pale imitation.
The power of aether draws creatures to it like a magnetic force, and those that are touched by it are forever altered.
"I'd just let the monkey have it if I were you. You can make another, but the same can't be said of your fingers." —Turni, Greenwheel groundskeeper
"The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames." —Pia Nalaar
"The giants follow the flow of aether, and twice a year it leads them through here. Lesson learned. More clearance is needed." —Sram, senior edificer
Some passengers ride without tickets.
"Consider this a high alert, people. Permission to destroy on sight. Either we take it down or it'll take down the Fair." —Pav, gremlin watch
Inventors have been known to capture gremlins with the intent to release them in a rival's workshop. More often than not, that plan backfires.
Inventors from around the world have come to the Fair hoping their creations will fly, drive, or sail their way to a top prize.
Graffiti of the "leaking spire" symbol is found wherever the renegades have been.
"The Consulate promised that we would all have access to aether. I'm just keeping them honest."
If her vehicle even has a brake, she couldn't tell you which pedal it is.
"To invent is to rebel." —Pia Nalaar
If an elf can dream it, a dwarf can build it, and a gremlin can eat it.
City officials once sent twenty gleaming automatons to exterminate a nest of gremlins. They soon saw the error of their ways.
"Nothing against you. It's just that waiting for Consulate clearance was never really my thing."
Architects find inspiration in the dragon's beauty of form, while artificers are influenced by the function of its fire.
Quicksmiths are eager to jump from one project to the next, relying on flashes of inspiration rather than careful research.
"Knock, knock . . . too late."
"Everyone starts off making garbage. If you finally make something halfway decent, it'll be the best day of your life." —Nehra, inventor
"All of those Consulate safety measures undone with one simple tweak."
"Whoa there. Easy. We're just going to take a little detour."
The giant-decorating contest at the migration festival is a tradition that may have started as a dare.
"Now that's the Chandra I've been waiting to see." —Liliana Vess
Tonight at the Grand Exhibition, witness Head Judge Tezzeret face off against the infamous renegade Pia Nalaar.
Most came to Ghirapur for the Fair. Gremlins came for the feast.
"This one's for my mom, and this one's for me."
The chasm of years and worlds collapsed under the power of their embrace.
Free from Consulate regulations, renegade-built automatons push performance to the limit.
Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments.
Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments.
"No, I don't believe they have the proper permits for those, but I'm not going to be the one to ask." —Caru, Consulate warden
Aetherborn patrons use any means necessary to secure victory for their protégés.
In Ghirapur, even the lowliest residents live in lavish surroundings.
"The price isn't negotiable, but I'm sure you'll agree it's fair."
Renegades do some of their best work right under the Consulate's nose.
Short lives lead to forbidden choices.
It's rare that the Prakhata Club closes its doors. It's also rare that Lord Gonti meets with Consul Kambal. What are the odds the two would occur on the same day?
"Let me guess. You thought I was dead."
The Consulate rarely cracks the coded announcement of a night market's location before dawn, and enforcers are taken care of if they wander too close.
"Every creation carries a piece of its creators. Their knowledge, their dreams, their soul. That is the best part."
Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design.
"Nice invention there. Looks real fragile."
Yesterday's marvels are today's antiques.
"That name shall not be spoken." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
"When you have the chance, take it. Laugh, sing, dance. Don't allow the night to end."
Kaladesh's illicit marketplaces are known as "night markets," but if you know who to ask, you can find what you're looking for at any time of the day.
"If you've done nothing wrong, you have nothing to fear." —Enforcer-Chief Ranaj
The swarm leaves behind a flawless pattern that only occasionally threatens the structural integrity of the wood.
"My creations still can't match the dive speed of those floppy-winged mammals. Maybe I should enter one of them in the Fair." —Viprikti, thopterist
An aetherborn wastes neither time nor treasure.
The "gifted" among the aetherborn can draw the life essence of other living beings into themselves.
In Embraal, inventor gangs defend their turf with ingenious devices and blunt objects.
Open hostilities are strictly forbidden at the Inventors' Fair, but "accidents" still happen.
The teeth marks add character.
"When the time comes, let go. Nothing lasts forever."
"Show them. Show them how hot your fire can burn." —Liliana Vess, to Chandra Nalaar
Baral's spies always have the latest technology.
Aetherborn who are unwilling to accept the decomposition of their bodies invent ways to preserve and augment themselves.
"I don't know what that is or who it belongs to, but it's shiny and I want it."
Drakes prowl the skies of Kaladesh, waiting for the perfect moment to strike.
Drakes prowl the skies of Kaladesh, waiting for the perfect moment to strike.
"Airships are too confining. If I'm in the sky, I want to feel the wind in my hair and taste the aether."
Vedalken have six thin, agile fingers on each hand, giving them unparalleled dexterity.
Aether shapes everything on Kaladesh, from the sky to the sea.
"To achieve what none have achieved before, one must dare what none have dared before."
"Pleasure doing business with you."
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
By the time a Consulate sanction becomes official, the renegade quicksmiths have already found a way to circumvent it.
The results of Rashmi's experimentation forced her to consider the possibility that multitudinous realities existed beyond her own.
"Impress me."
"A failure is simply another opportunity for improvement. Just wait until you see what I come up with next."
"This research violates Consulate law."
"They don't make them like they used to."
The aethersphere is home to the most wondrous beings on all of Kaladesh, although the dangers of traversing it mean that not much is known of them.
Janjeet Observatory is open to the public, but access to the adjoining laboratories is restricted.
"We meet again, pyromancer." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
Creators live for that moment of inspiration: precious, profound, perfect.
Its collection is vast, yet each ship has a special place in its heart.
The most dangerous thing an artificer can do is believe an invention is perfect.
"The little thopters seemed lonely up here, so I thought I'd join them."
"Nobody asked you to butt in, Jace. But thanks." —Chandra Nalaar
"Baral took my family from me back then. I'd do anything to face him now." —Chandra Nalaar
"Step right up! Try your hand! It'll thrill the senses and boggle the mind!"
"Citizens, do not resist. This is for your safety. Tezzeret bids you to surrender your inventions. Now."
The judges at the Fair are held in such high esteem that a nod of recognition can inspire an inventor for a lifetime—and a wave of dismissal can end a career.
Consulate engineers have developed safe methods of harvesting aether, but renegades aren't always so careful.
"It's a multifunctional radial extension system with superlateral, force-amplifying rigging. Of course it will win."
It shows affection an automaton never could.
"If you wish to produce the finest work, you must start with the finest tools."
Textiles at the Inventors' Fair feature threads from every corner of Kaladesh.
There is no dress code for the Inventors' Fair, but you'll be hard-pressed to find anyone or anything not done up in their finest.
In the moment of truth, it is as though time stands still, and the whale waits, suspended in the sky.
The great birds dive through the sky, wings skimming the aether streams, to fall upon their unsuspecting prey.
"The judges really put them through their paces, but they prevailed. I think they even impressed Head Judge Tezzeret." —Ritika, artificer
"By order of Consulate Mandate 482, I am required to detain you, citizen."
"There's no reason to buy a new one when I've got the tools to fix the one you've got." —Ripu, repair specialist
"The sky isn't the limit. It's the starting point."
Everything has an off switch.
The Consulate keeps watch at each of the eleven bridges to ensure that the market remains a haven for commerce, not for con artists.
"Let us never forget the joy that lies at the heart of invention."
One dwarf on a build team ensures competence. All dwarves on the team ensures brilliance.
When Baral constructed his trap for Chandra, he did not account for the arrival of an enormous leonin wielding a twin-headed axe.
"Welcome, one and all! Right this way! Open your eyes, your ears, and your imaginations to the wonders of the Inventors' Fair!"
"Shine bright, bolts tight."
Some display their trophies at the Hall of Mechanists. Others display their talent in the streets of Ghirapur.
"Ghirapur's gremlin population poses a threat to the infrastructure of the fairgrounds. Threats must be eliminated." —Sram, senior edificer
"Too much friction on your bearings, your countersinking is inconsistent, and there are lines in your casting. Dispose of it, and begin again." —Dovin Baan
"You're coming with me."
"At last, the infamous Pia Nalaar." —Tezzeret
Consulate-built automatons have a lifetime warranty.
Pilots take crippled skyships to the Aviaries, trusting Ghirapur's most talented mechanics to get them back into the air.
Citizens are free to do as they wish, within the confines of the Consulate's laws.
Dwarves have an instinct for repair, an inherent understanding of how systems work, and a reputation for fearlessness. They're perfect candidates for the Fair's emergency response team.
Renegades find ever more creative ways to work around the Consulate's aether regulations.
There's so much more to Ghirapur than can be accessed by traditional roads.
Ghirapur is a beacon of inspiration, attracting the most brilliant minds on Kaladesh.
Where high society and dark opportunity intersect.
Life inspires technology, which expands life's domain.
A retreat to nature can inspire even the most jaded inventor.
Some machines refuse to accept their own obsolescence.
All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them.
It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands.
This detailed model allows the edificers to examine the city from every angle.
"I like that Tezzeret. He has vision the other judges don't. He sees the potential in what we're making here." —Faiz, inventor
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
Design leads to progress.
While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary.
He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors.
"I opened my mind to the immensity of the wonders around me. It was only then that I could see the Great Conduit." —Rashmi, aether-seer
"Inspiration is reciprocal: we all have a responsibility to each other to create."
Next to her designs, life seems like a pale imitation.
Inventors have been known to capture gremlins with the intent to release them in a rival's workshop. More often than not, that plan backfires.
Tonight at the Grand Exhibition, witness Head Judge Tezzeret face off against the infamous renegade Pia Nalaar.
"The price isn't negotiable, but I'm sure you'll agree it's fair."
"That name shall not be spoken." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
Open hostilities are strictly forbidden at the Inventors' Fair, but "accidents" still happen.
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
"From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be."
The results of Rashmi's experimentation forced her to consider the possibility that multitudinous realities existed beyond her own.
"Impress me."
"We meet again, pyromancer." —Baral, Chief of Compliance
"Citizens, do not resist. This is for your safety. Tezzeret bids you to surrender your inventions. Now."
"If you wish to produce the finest work, you must start with the finest tools."
"Let us never forget the joy that lies at the heart of invention."
"Ghirapur's gremlin population poses a threat to the infrastructure of the fairgrounds. Threats must be eliminated." —Sram, senior edificer
"At last, the infamous Pia Nalaar." —Tezzeret
Citizens are free to do as they wish, within the confines of the Consulate's laws.
"This exhibition of Nehra's Threshold Principle must be expropiated and examined for its potential applications in enforcement." —Confiscation directive
"Truth be told, my team had hoped never to see the day it was deployed." — Consulate engineer's log
"At the outset, we weren't aware of Chief Baral's motives for the project. It's now apparant that he intends to use the device to hamper the 'mages' among the ranks of the renegades." — Consulate engineer's log
"Adi Thandray's angel is a Priority One confiscation from the Fair. Once you see it, you'll understand why." — Confiscation directive
"Rashmi's design was just the beginning. We are most eager to see what the High Consul has planned for it." — Consulate engineer's log
"This device was submitted to the Fair anonymously. It is imperative that its maker be found. We must understand it." — Confiscation directive
"Consider all confiscated items hostile until proven otherwise." — Confiscation directive
"When it oscillated above a particular frequency, the stone induced acute listlessness in several researchers." — Consulate engineer's log
"All attempts to halt the machine failed. We must find a way to repurpose it." — Consulate engineer's log
"With a few minor adjustments, we were able to convert sky-dock assisters into a defense system for the Aether Spire." — Consulate engineer's log
"Woven together, strands of aether can form a mesh of surprising stability, though such a network tends to pull power from nearby devices." — Consulate engineer's log
"Top-performing automaton combatants are to be seized and modified for service." — Confiscation directive
In an unusual foray into the humanoid form, Venand Kapur—known as the Gearherder—built this automaton to keep watch over his clockwork herds.
Reduction of energy and motion within the stasis field creates the illusion of slowed time.
It took the reclusive Venya Sangmi a lifetime to realize her childhood vision: a band of sunlight made solid.
Perfected by the kinetic sculptor Shanti Makam, these self-assembling metal strands can be coaxed into any shape imaginable.
Crafted in emulation of dwarven hearth decorations, these devices doubled the output of Amrit Vatyam's forges.
This whimsical automaton helps create beautiful murals, then stands guard as they dry.
On loan from a private collection, this unique mechanism extracts power from a carefully prepared gemstone.
Developed and tested by researchers at the Consulate's House of Knowledge, these devices allow anyone to see with a visionary's eye.
An utterly silent chamber, submitted by an artificer who wished to remain anonymous.
Each of these intricate mechanical petals stores enough power to supply all of Ghirapur, if only for a fleeting moment.
This matched set incorporates aetheric accelerators and deflection matrices in an elegant, wearable design.
By isolating liquid aether at room temperature, foundry hand Jitya Reyath has given us a glimpse of raw aetheric matter—the very stuff of the cosmos.
With innovative stabilizing techniques, Suja Pavani brings this piece of the sky itself to the Inventors' Fair.
It exemplifies the motto of the Luminary League: "Innovation requires insatiable curiosity and a good source of light."
Adi Thandray designed this helm as a tribute to his mentor, the great Daljit Gavaskar.
Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave.
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
Setting foot in their muck is an open invitation.
Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate.
Confront it at your own peril, for it will confront you for its own amusement.
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.
"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."
As the bridge snapped, Berko was sure he heard the swamp laughing at him.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize." —Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
Few among the living understand just how much of their world is shaped by the ruins of the dead.
Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless.
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.
"One little word was all it took. The world shook as I said it. The doom of Zendikar was here at last." —Ob Nixilis
"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."
Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates.
"Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise." —Ob Nixilis
"Later we will mourn those we have lost. First we must end their suffering." —Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
"Avoid anything that scuttles, scrabbles, or shambles." —Opar, veteran guide
Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.
"Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier." —Ob Nixilis
"I will secure my revenge on Zendikar one soul at a time." —Ob Nixilis
It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs.
Through the waves of Eldrazi attacks, the Murasan jungles seemed to regrow as soon as they were destroyed.
"The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look."
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
"The horizon is the perpetual ideal, the constant promise of hope." —Nissa Revane
Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.
"A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one . . . well, it's a tasty dinner." —Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"The world was not hostile to us—we were beneath its notice, and presented no danger." —The Invokers' Tales
"Roam as you will, your roots remain in the strong earth of your Rising."
Once, Nissa selected worthy fighters to defend the Joraga. Now, she gathers forces to defend all of Zendikar.
"Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we."
Nature's arms encircle all who are willing to draw close.
Desmera blinded her seers so that her beauty would be the last image burned in their memories. The act only deepened their insight.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil.
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains." —Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
Purphoros once loved Nylea, the god of the hunt. His passion inspired his most astounding works of art.
Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.
"Rath grows, and I am nourished." —Volrath
"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause." —Ezuri, renegade leader
The hedrons awoke along with the Eldrazi, forming superstructures that radiated overwhelming magic.
The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened. —The Theriad
"The direst venom becomes a panacea under Pharika's guidance. I bring it to the worthy, clinging at the edge of the abyss."
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
"We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born." —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch.
A lawmage's runic script is an act of governance given form: legislation written directly onto the air itself.
"Fair fight? How could it be a fair fight? We're Akroans. They're not."
"None can own the land's bounty. The gods made this world for all to share its riches. And I'm not just saying that because you caught me stealing your fruit."
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world." —Uros, Pendelhaven elder
Hunger makes a leucrocota dangerous. A full belly makes it angry and dangerous.
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
The elf's blade carved deep into the Eldrazi drone's fleshy lattices. Without a sound, the drone lost equilibrium and tumbled from the sky.
Nature doesn't walk.
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs.
Urak froze when he heard it. That was his first mistake. He turned and cast a dramatic ward spell. That was his last.
Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.
"Which is more filled with poison: the flower of the moonglove or the minds of elves?" —Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
The baloth's instincts boiled, its muscles pulled taut, and its razor-spines bristled, as it turned to face—a runt meepling.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
"Are the gods angry at our discontent with what they give us, or jealous that we made a thing they cannot?" —Kleon the Iron-Booted
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note.
The first vine shows the others where to grow.
Magistrate Ludy agreed to designate land for the brushstriders only after several broken windows and dozens of missing blini-cakes.
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world." —Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur Forest
Kolaghan archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They utilize their dragonlord's lightning to strike their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.
"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?" —Sarkhan Vol
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
"You have to appreciate the genius of it. Why bother building defenses when you can just fill the pass with angry ogres?" —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
A cyclops has two moods: angry and asleep.
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear." —Gaddock Teeg
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
Only the Cabal could make a fight to the death more deadly.
"The best way over the mountain is through."
"The enemy is getting too close! Quick! Inflate the toad!"
"Well, how could I know they'd explode?" —Gregel, township militia
After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers.
The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly.
It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.
"Your corruption will burn, serpent, until there is nothing left to defile." —Asmala, bloodfire mystic
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me." —Xantcha, to Gix
"You'd best move along, human. Our palates are far less discerning than our master's."
"The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle." —Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
Though the executioner did not speak, the villagers got the message.
A spark of resistance against a tide of corruption.
When he reaches for his key ring, you should be running for the exit.
You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather." —Rannon, Vithian holdout
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all." —Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
The death of a scout can be as informative as a safe return.
"Here are some bones for you to choke on, dear brother!" —Gisa, to Geralf
Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
Leukin stared at the smoldering angel feathers. "Run!" he screamed to his patrol. "We don't stand a chance!"
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
When harpies demand a toll to cross through their territory, consider yourself lucky if they permit payment in coin.
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible." —Gorghul, augur of skulls
"Mists are carefree. They drift where they will, unencumbered by rocks and river beds." —Thrasios, triton hero
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."
"You aren't invited."
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
"You cannot be an Ojutai monk. They prize wisdom and skill, and you have neither." —Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
"I'd build an entire fortress of them if I could." —Mzali, Lighthouse archmage
"Emeria is a pleasant lie, a figment to hide Emrakul's hideous face. I can only hope to uncover a truth that lies deeper still."
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
"He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami . . . unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick." —Toshiro Umezawa
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach." —Terhold, archmage of Drunau
Æther can turn a footprint into a blueprint.
The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
First the insult, then the injury.
Before signing anything on Grixis, always read the fine print.
"That is not the voice of the wind singing on the stones." —Callaphe the mariner
"Some merfolk choose to rest their fins in the water. I believe wisdom exists not only where we were born but where we were told not to go."
The sea's reach extends beyond its shores.
"Cower, fiend. The night is yours no longer."
The merfolk call the sky goddess Emeria. The kor call her Kamsa. The two races agree on little except that she offers many blessings to the faithful.
Farmers typically keep their flocks at thirteen sheep—one to distract the griffins while they take the other twelve to market.
Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house."
Samite healers never mix their pungent elixir with sweetener or tea. The threat of a second dose is enough to get most warriors back on their feet.
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.
"It is *not* sad," Radiant chided the lesser angel. "It is right. Every society must have its outcasts."
Mardu archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They never miss their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.
Some spirits mourn. Others terrorize.
"I'd rather hear the screams of battle than the quiet that follows." —Talara, elvish safewright
"Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo." —General Takeno
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"I thought the wind was ushering me to my final destination, but it lifted me to my feet and I fought on." —Idrus, war priest of Thune
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
The scepter of power is fragile in a calloused hand. —Cho-Arrim saying
Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
A shining symbol of Paliano's true ruler—ambition.
Imitation is the sincerest form of treachery.
"I'm sure we can come to an arrangement."
"Hail to the true queen! Long may she reign!"
"My sword is pledged to the defense of this city, not to the throne or this usurper."
Fruits for friends, fists for foes.
"The wild are neither your thralls nor your amusement."
"The dim resort to violence, for which the nimble prepare." —Leovold, emissary of Trest
"Sit. Fetch. Devastate."
The market is now closed.
"You burn. I'll pillage."
"It, uh, fell off a cart?"
Butcher's training, warrior's heart.
While most in Paliano seek fame through favor, he'll settle for infamy through blood.
The whitest robes stain best.
If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of bureaucracy.
"You're done!"
"Those who seize power must have the means to hold it." —Queen Marchesa
"Marchesa's poison is delivered by more than daggers." —Adriana, Captain of the Guard
"Keeping order is a task too important to relinquish in death." —Abrado, Custodi priest
"I did offer them a choice . . ." —Queen Marchesa
No duelist is without equal in Paliano.
For the right price, he'll unlock your path to the throne.
Mklthd had always hated crowds . . . and they had always hated him.
"Please vote with a clear head and vigilant heart, knowing each voice is meaningful regardless of the outcome." —Ottavio d'Oro, Electoral Committee Speaker of Paliano
Few things are more valuable than time or money—and Leovold has plenty of both.
The most effective roadways in Paliano aren't roads at all.
Within the city walls, Adriana's falcons hunt vermin of all kinds.
"Rulers come and go, but my allegiance belongs to the throne."
"These halls are sacred. You will be silent."
Before a cause can have supporters, it has to have a voice.
"I gladly offer my weapon and my life to the glory of my sovereign."
"One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection." —Adriana, Captain of the Guard
"Merchants and politicians differ only in name." —Queen Marchesa
When immovable object turns to unstoppable force, it's best to just get out of the way.
Many attempt to speak with nature. Selvala speaks less, and nature answers more.
Marit Lage lies dreaming, not dead. When will she awake from her icy prison?
For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.
Lands ravaged, cities in ruins, so many lives sacrificed, and yet there was no other word for it but victory.
"An imperfection in the perfect world? We can't allow that."
Once Mirrodin's brightest hope. Now Phyrexia's dark champion.
"It's self-indulgent, I admit, but I do like to watch my own symphony play itself out." —Nicol Bolas
The Patriarch is long dead, but his name still stains the lips of cultists.
Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.
"For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill." -Ugin
"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope." -Nissa Revane
"May knowledge be our sanctuary." —Yora, academy researcher
All are welcome.
Sometimes the weapon wields the bearer.
"Don't stop chopping until the pieces stop wiggling." —Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi
"Ludevic saw it in a dream and set to work immediately, every detail already known. Can such genius be taught?" —Stitcher Geralf
"It'll keep the crows away. Works on neighbors too." —Old Rutstein
As it walks across the fallow field, its awkward, loping gait matches the rattling in its head to create a haunting rhythm that chills the bones.
The head of the staff doubles as a brand to anoint the newly inducted.
"A leader can inspire courage, but it is the smiths and healers who truly keep hope alive." —Thalia, heretic cathar
The Order of Saint Traft cleared the roads of cultists and horrors, opening the way for the villagers to flee Thraben.
"Procedural misstep: provocation of geists for the purpose of yielding more energy can compromise containment units. Next action: clean up mess." —Laboratory notes
Sigarda was the last uncorrupted archangel, but she would not have to fight alone.
"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you." "A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."
"There is no saving this world, not anymore. But we shall be its bloody vengeance." —Sorin Markov
Each had seen friends and family taken by the corruption, so each carried an axe at the other's request.
The magic used by Kessigers is known for its practical applications.
"Show them what it means to be the source of nightmares!" —Ulrich, Krallenhorde alpha
"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!" —Ricton, traveling merchant
Its web is woven so tightly that not even geists can avoid capture.
"Every evil destroyed is a strike against the enemy." —Erold, Gatstaf springsage
"No matter how much a plane has suffered, there is a way to restore it." —Nissa Revane
The bonds of the pack transcend time and death.
Despite the reemergence of werewolves and the proliferation of Eldrazi, elk numbers in the Somberwald have remained steady.
"The power of the woods is only ever borrowed."
The Somberwald has become a hunting ground for the Dronepack, the group of werewolves that have succumbed to the flesh-twisting power of Emrakul.
Woodland geists concluded that Emrakul would be unable to warp the denizens of the forest if the geists got there first.
"More rope may not be necessary." —Kep, Lunarch inquisitor
"Bloodsuckers, howlers, monsters from the beyond . . . it doesn't much matter. I won't have to face them alone."
Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will.
As Emrakul's influence radiated across Innistrad, evacuation from Kessig's remote villages became increasingly difficult.
Hordes of Eldrazi and cultists swarmed over Thraben's defenses, and the members of the Gatewatch found themselves overrun.
"In times like these, be particularly wary of those who claim they can save your soul." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
"May the steel of your blade match the steel in your soul."
"What worked to bring down angels will do the same for these horrors." —Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi
"There is a sourness here that I don't understand. When the land reaches out to me, I hesitate to reach back." —Nissa Revane
Paranoia has driven some Kessig communities to hunt down anything—and anyone—that travels through their woods.
"Lightning in a bottle? That's not where I need it."
"Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius."
"The perils of the road, you say? Don't worry. You won't have to face those again."
"We can't win a war on an empty stomach, can we?" —Olivia Voldaren
"Hang on. I'm just tidying up." —Chandra Nalaar
A few gnawing thoughts can eat at the mind until nothing else remains.
"Keep your herons and shrews! You will find nothing in the moon, for the moon is a lie! It has told me so!"
A tiny crack is enough to open the mind to Emrakul.
"You brought this upon yourself, Sorin!"
A tidy desk is as good as an invitation.
"Drink deeply, for there is no tomorrow!" —Anje Falkenrath
"What's your plan?" Gideon asked. "Are you serious?" Chandra replied.
"Such an adorable face!"
"We're ready for anything!"
Geist-powered devices have no shortage of fuel.
"Writhe all you want, filth. It will do you no good."
"Each day there are new reports of homes along Getander Pass and Hofsaddel falling to vampires of a more savage nature. I've even heard tell that Anje Falkenrath has returned. Please send whatever help you can." —Sterin Gorn, letter to Thalia
"When you confront a wolf scorned by its pack, extra caution is the order of the day." —Raf Gyel of the Quiver of Kessig
With fewer patrols about, Kessig's roads have become prime hunting grounds.
Burning with hatred for Nahiri, the Voldaren and Markov forces assaulted the warped Markov Manor with a collective fury not seen in centuries.
"Some claim that rage is a cloud that obscures thought and vision. But I can assure you—I've never seen with greater clarity."
There is always a toll to pay for passage.
"Impressive." —Chandra Nalaar
Your thoughts are no longer your own.
"Emrakul makes apparent those whom she has favored." —Runo Stromkirk
"Don't worry, sweet brother. Help is on the way." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
Not all monsters have tentacles.
There will be no absolution.
The famed hunting hounds of House Cecani continue to prove the quality of their pedigree.
"Restraint is for the meek."
"Blood from the vein is the finest vintage to accompany a feast of the mind." —Runo Stromkirk
"I can no longer stand by as these Skirsdag infiltrators rot the church from within. Even the Lunarch Council is compromised. What a fool I've been." —Odric
"Do try to pull your weight, Geralf. I feel like I'm doing everything." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
"Don't get too comfortable in there." —Liliana Vess
What remained of the Lunarch Inquisition found new ways to extract confessions.
Displays of Voldaren bloodlust are not restricted to glamorous banquets and lavish parties.
"I'll keep watch. Happy now?"
"It's not work if you enjoy it."
The surviving members of the Markov bloodline drove through a crush of horrors to reclaim their ancestral home.
"You have to admit, Gideon—he has great form." —Liliana Vess
"We entered the church in search of solace, but it became clear we wouldn't find it there." —Grete, Order of Saint Traft
The Voldaren lands remained well protected when Olivia's army marched from Lurenbraum Fortress.
Countless ghouls surged through Thraben's streets, and with them came the city's salvation.
Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror.
"There's a smoothness to my magic here that I don't find on any other plane."
All around Emrakul, life re-formed in her image.
"Nicely done, Jace. You always were good at disappearing acts." —Liliana Vess
"There are tides beyond those in the sea that are driven by Innistrad's silver moon. If you learn their patterns, you can channel them in fascinating ways." —Tamiyo
When the Nebelgast recedes, there are often stragglers.
A place for everything, and everything in its place.
"Let's start fresh, shall we?"
"The answer's in here somewhere!"
Infinite wisdom cannot be contained within a single mind.
"Moonlight offers sublime warmth that brings me a comfort sunlight cannot provide."
It keeps intruders out and experiments in.
Heads and shoulders above the rest.
Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.
After reading the final words, it turns back to the first page and begins again.
Uncertainty has its own allure.
Amid the gibbering chorus that rose from the drownyard temple, Jace recognized a single word: "Emrakul."
"At last! Proof that it's not all in my head!"
Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia.
"I'll see you soon, Subjects 25 and 26. I've got a good feeling this time!"
"There's no sense arguing with insanity." —Levana, Midnight Duelist
"Improvisation is for those who failed to prepare." —Jace Beleren
At Nahiri's call, Emrakul traversed the vast emptiness between the planes and arrived on Innistrad.
"Improvement is a consequence of practice." —Stitcher Geralf
The uncorrupted rallied under Thalia's leadership and Sigarda's banner.
"Let the points of our lances lead the way."
"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
The remnants of Innistrad's corrupted angelic hosts collapsed to form the Flight of Nightmares.
"The most resolute soldiers will press forward in the face of overwhelming odds." —Gideon Jura
"My predecessors taught me of duty and commitment. It seems they have more to teach." —Wendin, veteran cathar
Many whose faith was destroyed by Avacyn turned to the only angel who remained true to humanity.
The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support.
"There is always more to give."
"Fight for a better future, even if you may not live to see it." —Grete, Order of Saint Traft
There is power in prayer, regardless of who is listening.
Not all minds touched by the Eldrazi turn to raging psychosis. Some simply withdraw from this world into memories of a better one.
"A boon from the angels should never be cast aside." —Manfried Ulmach, Chief Inquisitor
The person who finishes a journey is rarely the same as the one who starts it.
"Impurities must be pounded out."
The best weapon is the one at hand.
Immune to the physical warping caused by Emrakul, geists proved to be some of humanity's most important allies.
"Get behind me!"
She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs.
The flicker of candlelight and the echo of hymns told the villagers that the monastery wasn't truly abandoned.
She had not believed any shred of humanity remained in these writhing monsters until the twisted form of her partner appeared before her.
"I've seen cathars riding to battle without a hint of fear. Perhaps that is its own sort of madness." —Esler, Havengul mercenary
"I will join you so that you will not yet join me."
Gideon and Liliana may not have seen eye to eye, but that did not stop them from fighting side by side.
After facing so many horrors, the survivors of Videns parish couldn't comprehend the hope that the gryff represented.
One silvery blast signaled that she wouldn't be arriving at Thraben alone.
Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep.
She now sees only Emrakul's visions.
"It has latched onto this place like an infestation. All efforts at eradication have proved futile." —Yeter, Trostad villager
An enigma as vexing as life itself.
All are welcome.
"Ludevic saw it in a dream and set to work immediately, every detail already known. Can such genius be taught?" —Stitcher Geralf
Sigarda was the last uncorrupted archangel, but she would not have to fight alone.
"These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you." "A sentiment that warms my heart, sister."
"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!" —Ricton, traveling merchant
"I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!" — Ricton, traveling merchant
"No matter how much a plane has suffered, there is a way to restore it." —Nissa Revane
The bonds of the pack transcend time and death.
Woodland geists concluded that Emrakul would be unable to warp the denizens of the forest if the geists got there first.
"In times like these, be particularly wary of those who claim they can save your soul." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
"You brought this upon yourself, Sorin!"
"Such an adorable face!"
"We're ready for anything!"
There is always a toll to pay for passage.
There is always a toll to pay for passage.
There will be no absolution.
"Blood from the vein is the finest vintage to accompany a feast of the mind." —Runo Stromkirk
"I'll keep watch. Happy now?"
Countless ghouls surged through Thraben's streets, and with them came the city's salvation.
"Let's start fresh, shall we?"
Infinite wisdom cannot be contained within a single mind.
Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul.
At Nahiri's call, Emrakul traversed the vast emptiness between the planes and arrived on Innistrad.
"Let the points of our lances lead the way."
"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
"Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary."
The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support.
"There is always more to give."
There is power in prayer, regardless of who is listening.
She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs.
Gideon and Liliana may not have seen eye to eye, but that did not stop them from fighting side by side.
Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep.
She now sees only Emrakul's visions.
"It has latched onto this place like an infestation. All efforts at eradication have proved futile." —Yeter, Trostad villager
An enigma as vexing as life itself.
The worst part isn't the pain, or the smell, or even the fear of death. It's hearing the clatter of bone on stone and knowing the bones are yours.
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
"How could anyone survive this? There is some force at work that stifles even the will to go on." —Naromin, veteran explorer
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
The toymaker frowned in bewilderment. None of his creations had ever sneezed before.
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.
It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.
"If you work at sawing up carcasses, you notice how the joints fit, how the nerves are arrayed, and how the skin peels back." —Ashnod, to Tawnos
"If you'd ever met one, you wouldn't ask me to justify the extra provisions for additional security." —Lorref, caravan master
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder." —Knight-Captain Wyhorn
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics." —Juzba, Izzet tinker
"I have seen entire civilizations rise and fall. You mortals are but dust to me." —Sorin Markov
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin.
No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"
To the elves, her spear is a compass; to the boggarts, a harbinger of doom.
"Even if we dislodge them, I fear these lands will never again yield crops." —Kimmick, vanguard knight
The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers.
Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.
If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.
"My rule persists beyond death itself."
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"Don't laugh. It works."
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
When they land on you, all you can think about is tearing them off.
"Let the wild in. Channel its strength." —Freyalise
To become is to understand.
"If you ever want to leave this forest, now's the time."
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.
"Your first reaction may be to stand very still and hope she didn't see you. Trust me, she did." —Endril, Kalonian naturalist
When does majestic become ominous?
It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence.
One thread connected all the travelers' stories: the ferocity of the mongoose.
"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all." —Sildark, artificer of Omu
. . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
To the sorrow of all, its web became a net that strangled those who helped weave it.
"Study the great spirits of our age and those of the past. Prune secrets from the branching traceries of our lineage." —Twila, Gilt-Leaf archdruid
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else." —Lord Hilneth
Through the smoke and flames it hunts, sniffing out the panicked and confused.
The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.
"Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all."
For the first time in many years, Elspeth asked for help.
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —Scroll of Beginnings
"I pass to you all we have ever been. Go forth and become all we never could."
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire." —Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat
"Don't spend long examining signs of its passage. That you find them at all means it's still close at hand." —Varra, Warden of the East Road
"It is not in me to tread lightly." —Ryda, geomancer
In an attempt to restore pride to Shiv and to forge an undying legacy, Rorix traveled far to compete for glory in Otaria's Grand Coliseum.
Water can be crushing, but it is predictable. Fire is always dynamic, its rage absolute and all-consuming.
Enthusiasm can be tempered in the furnace of the earth.
The orcs' banner sends a clear message: "Stand against us and meet the same fate as the goblins."
"I got it! I got it! I—"
It puts the "fur" in "fury."
To the sorrow of all, its rage became focused on those who once stoked it.
"What's the worst that can happen?"
"Fire's out. Should be safe now." —Gnarltrunk
"There's more where that came from!"
"I'll put my sword down only to die. And I don't plan on doing that today."
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.
"There's no coming back from that." —Jaya Ballard
Mist is the geists' sorrow. Wind is their pain. Fire is their vengeance.
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.
Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend.
"So the vulture said to the griffin, 'You gonna eat that?'" —Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
"My eyes are my strongest feature."
"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood.
In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds." —Esara, healer adept
"They exist only so long as the living take no notice." —Kifimbo, Shadow guildmage
High walls, a sturdy keep, a strong garrison . . . they made no difference. In a matter of moments, the city was lost.
"The penalty for idleness is death. The penalty for disputing the penalty is death."
"Wait, are we the decoys?"
"I can ail what cures you."
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?" —Vraska
His victims don't have time to feel despair.
"Was it something I said?"
"Such an affliction appears to seek out the pure." —Byro, plague doctor
In beauty-obsessed Lys Alana, one cut of her blade means the difference between a high society feast and raking through the dungheap for scraps.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.
To the sorrow of all, its dark reach grasped and crushed those who guarded its silent vigil.
A cry of pain as it enters this world. A chorus of screams as it leaves.
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one." —Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
"I'll return once you've ripened." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
Ending her life won't end the infestation.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions."
"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
"See the beauty in death: the clean white bones lying in the fertile soil and the brightly colored moonglove sprouting from the fell earth."
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.
"The floor of the sea is paved with the shattered remnants of vessels that navigated its surface unwelcomed." —Thassa, god of the sea
"A warrior without wit is simply meat."
"By thorn and by stone, we will fight to see the day when beauty returns to this world."
The same magic that lets geists pass through our realm can force them out of it.
Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.
"The best foresight is hindsight." —Empress Llawan
"You can't learn to enjoy life's amusements in the pages of books. You must seek them out in earnest."
Is it an amalgamation of faded memories or the projection of a half-remembered dream? Neither answer offers any comfort.
"Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds." —Talrand, sky summoner
Oona grants her favored subjects a dream from her own guarded heart.
The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search.
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
What a lonely agony, the memory of memories lost.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
The bolt struck with a flash, and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed.
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains." —Esper fable
Fire can be savage, but it is fickle. Water is always true, its flow steady and world-shaping.
To the sorrow of all, its winds found sin in the hearts of those who once learned from its wisdom.
"There is no confusion as to the boundary of the archmage's territory." —Ippin, master cartographer
In the coastal states of Jhess and Valeron, "tortoise" is a synonym for "stubborn."
"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Is the inevitable any less miraculous?" —Veldka, wandering sage
"I alone determine my destiny."
"No fact escapes me. Why do you think you can?"
If you don't have the best toys, find the one who does.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
"Those talons really dig into your skin, but it's better than being dropped." —Rafiq of the Many
"Let nothing take away from the purity of swords clashing or of arrows taking flight toward the breast of evil."
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi." —Expedition journal entry
Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
"Their spirits walk the winds and fill my soul."
Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
It suddenly dawned on Jorin that farming was quite a noble profession.
"Find the dens of evil and flood them with light." —Hulo, the Penitent Wanderer
"If you must go out at night, bring a mob." —Master of the Elgaud Cathars
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.
"Belief is the strongest mortar."
Some sky steeds break from the thundering herd to ride free on the open winds.
"Scholars seek to understand the way the world is. I wish to shape the world into what it should be."
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
Through failure we learn our finest lessons in humility.
To the sorrow of all, its fire was turned toward those who worshipped it.
"Organization is often undervalued but rarely unjustified." —Frasio, royal archivist
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
"Virtue is an inner light that can prevail in every soul."
Giving little thought to their own defense, they carried the flag that united their army.
"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."
A kithkin's worst enemy is solitude.
"Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost." -Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky." -Greenweaver Mina
"Do not concern yourself with my origin, my race, or my ancestry. Seek my record in the pits, and then make your wager."
"Consider this: the shepherd turns on her flock. Why?" —Tamiyo's journal
"The symbols—when did they change?" —Tamiyo's journal
"Remember to have Jenrik research Markov Manor." —Tamiyo's journal
"With angels came mysteries." —Tamiyo's journal
"For every answer, three questions." –Tamiyo's journal
"Their chanting grows louder as the tide rises." –Tamiyo's journal
Two creaking waterwheels herald the approach to Briarbridge through the Ulvenwald.
Each cryptolith twists the plane's mana, bending its flow to a singular purpose.
In Gavony, headstones come only from quarries that have been blessed by chaplains.
A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast.
With the fate of Innistrad uncertain, some seek solace in remote areas.
"Such a beautiful place for a stroll." —Liliana Vess
"Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
Sent to find Sorin, Jace ventured to the vampire's ancestral home, only to find evidence of a deeper mystery.
"This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!" —Jace Beleren
When there were no more crows to scare, it focused its efforts elsewhere.
Entry 922: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Entry 855: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Entry 711: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Entry 653: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Entry 546: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Entry 434: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
"They left in one piece. I can't speak to how they arrived." —Rupirk, porter at the Rusted Anchor Inn
Though the first who raised it in a fit of passion is long dead, the axe still carries memories of bitter scorn.
Knight-Inquisitors of Saint Raban delve deep into mysteries best left unexplored.
Bear the weight of so many spirits and you'll surrender civility and restraint to savagery and instinct.
"Souls are volatile things. When compressed and loaded into a handheld device, their destructive potential is quite impressive." —Dierk, geistmage
Many names and many memories bound together in grim purpose.
It is all too easy to disturb the Blessed Sleep.
"Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired." —Stitcher Geralf
The mind can only expand so far before it flies apart.
Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.
"Lost in the woods" is an optimistic way to describe a villager's disappearance. "Found in the woods" is frequently more appropriate.
"Prayers can be powerful, but I prefer to put faith in my own two hands."
"Halana grew brambles to create a barricade around our camp, hoping that it would keep the wolves out. That was a mistake for which we almost paid dearly." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
Some have returned to Hollowhenge, the ruins of Avabruck, to restore the lost capital of Kessig.
Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.
Silverfurs are the last remaining wolfir.
"The cornfields promise a good yield this season." —Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
The seeds of new life take root in the soil of old.
"You should have seen the look on both their faces." —Morkamp, Lambholt innkeeper
"I know a ranger that thought to make a cloak of its hide. He ended up losing an eye for his trouble." —Raf Gyel of the Quiver of Kessig
Courage alone won't keep you alive.
"When I was a child, we worried about picking the wrong mushrooms for the cook pot. Now we must worry about being picked ourselves." —Halana, Kessig ranger
"I've never known dryads to suffer visitors in their woods. Beware the Ulvenwald when she welcomes you." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
In the quiet of the Somberwald, new horrors stir.
"How do I know where aid is needed? Look around you."
The renewed howling of werewolves announced the end of the Cursemute—and the beginning of Avacyn's madness.
"While the church thinks in terms of legacies, others think in terms of eternities."
"Their keen sense of smell draws them to the unnatural. To find one is a boon." —Veka, hinterland inspector
"An unexpected ally." —Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels
"This is as far as I go." —Beckram, Skiltfolk escort
From the jagged peaks of Stensia, to the tangled woods of Kessig, to the bogs of Nephalia, the Gavony Riders prepare for all terrain.
The old hermit would never say what he fed his mushrooms, and people learned not to ask.
In times of madness, people cling to the familiar, monstrous though it may be.
The chant was incomprehensible, but its power was unmistakable.
"Never flinch from the truth." —Thalia, Guardian of Thraben
It is a grim duty to save the world from those created to protect it.
A good courier travels fast and asks no questions.
"A slayer gets by on wits and reflexes." —Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf
"How can werewolves be considered abominations next to such creatures?" —Arlinn Kord
"I have yet to find my equal."
"To be honest, I'm not quite sure what's going to happen." —Renna, Selhoff alchemist
"It's right to fear those that you keep locked away." —Rahilda, Vildin-Pack alpha
"I am not its master. We are of the same pack." —Ulrich, Krallenhorde alpha
"The voice has grown louder, its accusations angrier and more insistent. By morning, it will likely drown out all else. I fear what I will do." —Letter discovered in an abandoned estate
"As Zendikar has bled, so will Innistrad. As I have wept, so will Sorin." —Nahiri
Having infiltrated the Lunarch Council, the Skirsdag await the perfect moment to strike.
New cults rising in Nephalia have found allies in the Stromkirk bloodline, whose progenitor worships ancient and terrible forces.
Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away.
Previously the training center for cathars, the Elgaud Grounds are now used by the Lunarch Inquisition to punish those considered to be heretics.
"Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost." —Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
Its growl is the crackling and popping of a wildfire untamed.
The Needle's Eye, a seldom-used passage that winds through Stensia's mountains, carries travelers close to Ashmouth—too close, some would argue.
"I have seen it. Seen the end, seen the beginning, the beginning of the end. Not death, no, no. Transcendence!"
Spirits disturbed by ghoulcallers become geists driven by restless anger.
"Manners are for mortals."
"Reflect upon your evils lest they reflect upon you." —Inquisitor Laerin
"Ah, to be young again." —Olivia Voldaren
Fear the patient devil, the one who is calm in the midst of chaos. Beware the silent devil, the one whose cackle does not mingle with the others.
Wolves and werewolves join together for the common cause of the hunt.
"There is no place like a rooftop laboratory in a lightning storm. It's where genius strikes." —Renna, Selhoff alchemist
"You must pay for your sin in blood."
"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
No howl. No snarl. Just the roar of flames.
There is an eagerness among the Quiver of Kessig to prove they are the equal of the other cathar orders.
"It came on as quickly as taking in a breath of air. Cathars who had fought shoulder to shoulder were at each other's throats. They were not themselves." —Halmig, Order of Saint Traft
"The city is overrun. I would say burn it to the ground, but that won't be necessary." —Inquisitor Delmund
Devils sow chaos and reap panic.
From within its prison, the book endlessly whispers words of cruelty and spite.
"No emergency is so dire that it cannot be dealt with elegantly." —Olivia Voldaren
"Children, where are your parents?" —Reig, wandering monk, last words
"Where has little Gossamer gone?" —Thaniel, Gatstaf shepherd
"Victim discovered at dawn with mouth agape and eyes bulging. No evidence of blood loss or dismemberment. Severe bruising around the neck." —Vallon, Thraben inspector
The lineage of Runo Stromkirk is known for producing some of Nephalia's greatest fencing masters.
Echoing hoofbeats can no longer be assumed to be help from the Gavony Riders.
An old family recipe for an old family grudge.
Lost loved ones are never truly gone.
His mind was lost long before his flesh.
"To die failing to save a loved one is just so sad—or, more to the point, pathetic." —Liliana Vess
"They're in the walls! Can't you hear them?"
"What's worse than being alone on the moors at night? Try not being alone." —Nadila Maas, moor chaplain
"As we muster for war, I have little patience for lethargy or recalcitrance."
"Thank you. This blade becomes so hot in my hand, but your blood has quenched it."
"There's not enough salt in all of Nephalia to wither that thing." —Ghoulcaller Enslow
"You sought to anger me, Nahiri. Soon you will see how well you have succeeded."
The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.
Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead.
"Days ago, you came to my door asking for help, Jace. Yet now here you are with accusations?"
"If you're not surrounded by decadence, my question to you is—why not?"
As you hear it baying in the distance, you'll feel its breath on your neck.
"Soft dirt makes for light work."
It once served a cathar roadwatcher, patrolling the crossways between villages. Its hooves still carry it along the same path.
"Once in the box, we're all the same."
Spiteful geists rise from the muck of the Farbogs, eager to lure travelers to their doom.
"Dungeons and cages offer far too little sport." —Relio Voldaren
At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress.
On Innistrad, it is seldom wrong to stay indoors.
There is power in the abyss, in blackness more profound than the darkest dreams.
It does no good to bar the gate when the enemy is already inside.
"The ravings of the mad are laced with eldritch knowledge."
"Write everything down. Trust me." —Vallon, Thraben inspector
"Every answer seems to lead to a more terrifying question." —Jace Beleren
Thunder isn't all that follows lightning.
"Amazing, isn't it, how scraps can come together to create such a wonder?" —Stitcher Geralf
Sleep doesn't always mean rest.
It's not just a feeling—you are being watched.
Nephalia is home to many hard-shelled creatures of unusual size, the largest of which are either avoided or worshipped.
"Your recent work is an inspiration. I have the utmost respect for your approach, and your craft is impeccable. At your convenience, I would be honored to collaborate on a project." —Ludevic, letter to Geralf
"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
Progress comes at a price.
"'I'm certain that the fate of Markov Manor is connected to these cryptoliths . . .' This Tamiyo was on to something."
"The clues have begun to reveal a truth I hesitate to accept."
It fuels its lanterns by leaching the warmth from its surroundings.
For stitchers and necro-alchemists, it's important that work can continue at all hours.
"There's nothing to worry about."
"Just a collage of images: cryptoliths, the sea, a tangle of shipwrecks."
"Sometimes it's best for the lost to stay lost." —Herzag, mayor of Havengul
"In terms of intelligence, homunculi are somewhere between humans and skaabs—clever enough to follow more complex orders, but dim enough to not question them." —Stitcher Geralf
"My earliest work escapes me." —Stitcher Geralf
A spirit is both fettered and free—bound in some ways to its previous existence, yet able to transcend much of the corporeal.
"When all else fails, follow the geist's lantern." —Vallon, Thraben inspector
"Is this what you found, Tamiyo?" —Jace Beleren
"The tides have begun to ignore the moon." —Tamiyo's journal
Seagrafs yield an abundance of resources for stitchers and ghoulcallers alike.
"Angels and inquisitors terrorize villages, but no one seems to notice the stirring out at sea."
When all logical solutions fail, try an illogical one.
Everyone has something to hide.
"So much for neighborly hospitality!"
"The appearance of these warped stones throughout the provinces is too pervasive to be random. More evidence is needed to determine the reason behind them." —Tamiyo's journal
Some minds bend under pressure. Others break.
Geists seeking redemption must first be given the opportunity.
"Those who aren't welcome will know it!" —Kolman, elder of Gatstaf
"If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least."
Thalia established the Order of Saint Traft in an effort to bring together cathars who would stand against the corruption of the Lunarch Council.
The longest nights are measured not in hours, but in heartbeats.
"We fight not for Avacyn, but for her ideals; not for the church, but for its people." —Thalia, Guardian of Thraben
"I'm sure you have a story. Everyone has a story. You can tell it to the bars."
The restless geists of common folk often continue their lifelong labors.
"Shield yourself with faith. Arm yourself with silver." —Slayer Kastinne
"If you refuse to see the light, then you will feel it."
The mind is perfectly capable of creating its own monsters.
"Once Avacyn returned, I hoped I'd never need these things again. I didn't think I'd be dusting them off to use against angels."
Visit the dead, and they may return the favor.
"Sorin, I'm going to take everything from you."
It has no apparent purpose or direction. It simply drifts, buoyed by breezes both tangible and otherworldly.
"I am an instrument of the church wielded against Avacyn's enemies."
"Our enemies will soon discover that we are not as meek as they had believed."
Many fields now lie fallow in Gavony, as the oxen have been confiscated to perform other duties.
"The element of surprise only works when it's backed up by a bolt between the eyes."
"I have given my life to the church, my soul to Avacyn, and my heart to the people."
"Only the pure stand tall in the light." —Sigarda
"The call of the Blessed Sleep is not so strong as the call to protect those in need." —Saint Traft
The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.
On expeditions through Ashmouth, the hunters of Devilthorn Lodge rely on the cleverness of foxes to counteract the mischief of devils.
Above the cries, a phrase rang out: "You will all be saved."
The message was clear to Sorin—Nahiri had paid Markov Manor a visit.
"The harder they try to extinguish my faith, the brighter it burns in the darkness."
"There was a time when the purpose of the church was to heal and protect. I would see that time return."
"Unwavering and loyal, they represent stability in uncertain times." —Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels
For some customers, the old apothecary shop still opens its doors.
"We must save you from yourselves."
"We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies." —Children's prayer
A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast.
Sent to find Sorin, Jace ventured to the vampire's ancestral home, only to find evidence of a deeper mystery.
"This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!" —Jace Beleren
Entry 653: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
Entry 855: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . .
It is all too easy to disturb the Blessed Sleep.
"Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired." —Stitcher Geralf
The mind can only expand so far before it flies apart.
Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever.
Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.
Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare.
Silverfurs are the last remaining wolfir.
"The cornfields promise a good yield this season." —Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
The seeds of new life take root in the soil of old.
The old hermit would never say what he fed his mushrooms, and people learned not to ask.
The chant was incomprehensible, but its power was unmistakable.
"How can werewolves be considered abominations next to such creatures?" —Arlinn Kord
"Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost." —Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
"There is no place like a rooftop laboratory in a lightning storm. It's where genius strikes." —Renna, Selhoff alchemist
"You must pay for your sin in blood."
"You must pay for your sin in blood."
"The city is overrun. I would say burn it to the ground, but that won't be necessary." —Inquisitor Delmund
"Where has little Gossamer gone?" —Thaniel, Gatstaf shepherd
The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.
The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous.
There is power in the abyss, in blackness more profound than the darkest dreams.
"The ravings of the mad are laced with eldritch knowledge."
"My earliest work escapes me." —Stitcher Geralf
"Is this what you found, Tamiyo?" —Jace Beleren
"The tides have begun to ignore the moon." —Tamiyo's journal
Everyone has something to hide.
The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.
Above the cries, a phrase rang out: "You will all be saved."
The message was clear to Sorin—Nahiri had paid Markov Manor a visit.
"We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies." —Children's prayer
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?" —Dionus, elvish archdruid
"Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size." —Kithkin superstition
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising." —Ashiok
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with.
Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
Stand your post for duty. Stand your ground for honor.
"All these old relics have one thing in common. Every last one of them is made of smithereens." -Zada of Slab Haven
"The mind of an Eldrazi is a puzzle that can never be solved. The trick is to make sure a piece goes missing." -Jace Beleren
For the necro-alchemist, any puzzle can be solved with intelligence and harvested body parts.
Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.
"Do not touch a drop. Not yet. I want to watch this so-called slayer's last crisis of faith." —Olivia Voldaren
Marella was delighted. The ball had attracted so many suitors for her daughter, including that handsome stranger. She wondered where the two were now . . . .
For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.
"I have seen a hundred mortal families rise and fall. I shall outlast a thousand more." —Olivia Voldaren
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all." —Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create." —Liliana Vess
"Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
The will to return can overpower the will to survive.
"At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs." —Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
Without a mind, it doesn't fear death. Without a soul, it doesn't mind killing.
"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad." —Sorin Markov
Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest.
Death took his humanity but not his skill with the knife.
"The best skaabs are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts." —Stitcher Geralf
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.
"The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"It always amazes me what perfectly good things people throw away." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"So many corpses, so little time."
"So much for neighborly hospitality!"
Not everyone can have a sword of blessed silver. Not everyone needs one, either.
Outside the safety of Thraben, there is little distinction between tool and weapon.
Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited.
"'I'm certain that the fate of Markov Manor is connected to these cryptoliths . . .' This Tamiyo was on to something."
"My drivers are trustworthy. I removed their tongues myself. Any other questions?"
"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in." —Sved, fisherman of Nephalia
"Ghouls smashed the door, but I heard the call of the gryffs and knew we were saved." —Ekka, shopkeeper of Hanweir
"I am no mere ship's captain. The north wind is my accomplice. The tide is my first mate."
Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous.
"Priests, hunters, slayers—to arms! The enemy approaches!"
"Let them decry me for burning the dead. I'm not giving those ghoulcallers any more fuel for their madness."
You don't want to see his trophy room.
"No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Inquisitors are taught scripture, philosophy, and the fine art of sharpening an axe.
The Host sings of Avacyn's return without a single verse about its own suffering.
In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.
"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."
"My greatest hope is that you will surpass me in every way, consigning my name to some forgotten corner of history."
The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us." —Mikaeus, the Lunarch
Death has bound it with chains of past regrets. Forever it searches for atonement, each kindness removing a single link.
"I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me."
"Evil will soon be vanquished. What Innistrad most needs now is healing."
"What cannot be destroyed will be bound." —Oath of Avacyn
Kozilek's presence warped the land, stripping away layer after layer.
Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty.
Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do.
"Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea." —Kiora
Once a center for knowledge, Sea Gate now serves as a reminder of what was lost.
The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice.
Even in areas of profound devastation, the hedrons remained intact.
"Look, and see the future." —Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims
A mudflow swallowed the lowlands years ago. All that remains are a bottomless mire and an endless rain of ash.
"Sometimes being fast is as important as being smart." —Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
The nomadic kor carry only necessities on their long treks. The coming of the Eldrazi redefined "necessities."
A light to bring hope in dark times.
"It's endearing, in a mystical, pointy sort of way." —General Tazri, allied commander
"If we're going to survive, we have to use every tool at our disposal. Especially the disgusting ones." —Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
Forged for victory in a time of despair.
Once a simple tool, it—like everything else on Zendikar—has been turned into a weapon against the Eldrazi.
"When I'm done training you, anything will be a deadly weapon."
Roilmages' tactics are as chaotic as the energies they channel.
"I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end."
Greenweaver Mina and her twin brother Denn lead the last of the Mul Daya into an uncertain future.
"Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation."
"Before the battle, I heard them take an oath near the ruins of Sea Gate. I hope they inspire others to keep watch."
"My people are no longer slaves to the Eldrazi, beholden to the past. We will determine our own future."
"Humans use pigs to hunt for mushrooms, don't they? It's like that." —Harak, Malakir bloodwitch
"The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look."
"My people blazed these pathways long ago, before the Eldrazi came. We will ride them long after the Eldrazi are gone."
"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
It is a reminder that spring will always follow winter.
"A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one . . . well, it's a tasty dinner." —Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all."
"For the life of every plane, I will keep watch."
In the jungles of Tazeem, aerial assault is not always advantageous.
"Killing the Eldrazi is not enough. We must erase all memory of them from this world." —Greenweaver Mina
The forest floor of Murasa is home to life as diverse and vibrant as that of the canopy above.
Gideon and Nissa carved a path through the Eldrazi swarm, and their Zendikari allies charged into the fray behind them.
Having no interest in the greater conflict, the trolls continue to prey upon whatever wanders into their domain.
"My heart and Zendikar's beat as one. Together we will endure." —Nissa Revane
The settlement's defenders were glad to have such a massive, ferocious creature join the fight—but less glad to see it flatten their homes along the way.
Jace discovered the leyline pattern needed to anchor Ulamog and Kozilek to reality, but it was Nissa who could trace it on her world.
A young baloth channels its energy into playful destructiveness. Over time, it becomes less playful but no less destructive.
As the Eldrazi adapted to the jungles of Zendikar, some took on the tactics of more familiar predators.
"There's a word for someone who brings too much gear to battle: 'survivor.'" —Zada of Slab Haven
When Kozilek destroyed Sea Gate, distant Valakut could not contain its grief.
"A touch of lightning, and anyone can be taught to dance." —Tobin, sparkmage
Never ask a pyromancer if that's the best she's got.
"If it means that people can live in freedom, yeah, I'll keep watch."
Travelers are advised to bring extra swords, preferably shiny ones.
There are old goblins and ambitious goblins, but very few old, ambitious goblins.
As Gideon kept the brood lineages at bay, Chandra incinerated the bound Eldrazi titans.
"I run, and thunder follows."
Ob Nixilis had prepared for every eventuality—except Chandra Nalaar.
Chandra used jets of flame to lure hellions into the path of oncoming Eldrazi.
It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it.
"If someone claims the sky is falling, I listen." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
In the face of extinction, the most perilous endeavors can be cause for hope.
Tarek could not tell whether he was losing his blood or his mind.
"The Eldrazi make worse than ruins—they make a world where not even ruins stand." —Gideon Jura
It denied the Zendikari the chance to stand and die fighting.
"They employ a foul sort of teamwork." —General Tazri, allied commander
"What will not yield will be consumed." —Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims
The chains obey her. Everything else would do best to get out of her way.
"Zendikar will fight until it has bled its last."
"Mindlessness is not weakness. When we are lost to hunger we are unstoppable." —Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
The amorphous, magically animated residue known as the Fathom Sludge lurks in the Hagra Cistern, attacking its prey with pseudopods and dragging it down to be digested.
"I have suffered a thousand lifetimes of agony on this wretched world. I've far less time to share with you, but I assure you, no less pain." —Ob Nixilis
Zendikar's defenders include both healers and vampires. One way or another, the fallen will return to the fight.
"Your blood whispers secrets your mind could never comprehend."
"I welcome the use of even the foulest magic if it will rid us of the monstrosities that plague our world." —Munda, ambush leader
"Drana commands me. I command my nulls. And so her bidding is done."
"The distraction of your life has ended. Now your service begins." —Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog
"Ulamog stood before us at Sea Gate, ready to succumb . . . and then Kozilek arose. Whatever hope I had for our world died." —Vandri, Kalastria emissary
"Eldrazi don't die easy. Sometimes they don't die at all." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
It kills what is, making way for what should not be.
"The Eldrazi are nothing if not thorough." —Jace Beleren
Kozilek's brood infiltrates and deceives. The spawn of Ulamog mindlessly consume.
It's bad enough to be torn to pieces. It's worse by far to be torn from the world itself.
From nothingness, sustenance.
Listen to the sound of defeat.
In its shadow, everything changed.
It grew with a terrible swiftness.
Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered.
When Kozilek emerged at Sea Gate, his brood lineage swarmed to the surface.
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.
Faced with the novel problem of inspiring an army, Jace asked himself: "What would Gideon say?"
"Sea Gate is gone, the Halimar basin empty. But rebuild the seawall and give these waters time, and they will fill the basin anew."
The Roil takes many forms. It also takes many victims.
He answers questions as readily as he asks them, but his answer is always "no."
"The Roil may be unpredictable, but it is not uncontrollable." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage
"For the sake of the Multiverse, I will keep watch."
"Eventually, everything returns to silence." —Zarra, lullmage
Though solitary by nature, the sphinxes did not hesitate to join in the fight against the Eldrazi.
It's an experience you'll never forget.
The rampaging Roil creates life out of the most volatile elements.
"Our time grows short. If we wish to vanquish the Eldrazi, we must unlock the hedrons' secrets." —Jace Beleren
After the fall of Sea Gate and the draining of the Halimar basin, the crab set off to find a new home.
Eldrazi break concentration like glass.
"I never thought I'd miss the gomazoa." —Trinda, Hada spy patrol
The Eldrazi twisted in a direction that had no name, and a frontal assault became a panicked rout.
It doesn't twist words. It twists worlds.
"Zendikar's true gods have risen. Whether in reverence or agony, all the world will kneel." —Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims
"The stone speaks. We are merely interpreters."
The makers and menders are the first called to battle and the last to leave.
It glides over the landscape. It also happens to be one.
"Follow me. Step lightly. And resist the urge to kick them."
"Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight." —Gideon Jura
"Light can lay bare our fears. It can also make them go away." —Nazra of the Stone Havens
Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not.
"I will follow the light of Iona into battle, and I will know no fear."
"For justice and peace, I will keep watch."
"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!"
"We may have lost faith in our gods, but we are far from losing faith in ourselves." —Munda, ambush leader
"The Eldrazi have surprised us before. It's my job to make sure that never happens again."
For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten.
"With rope, I can fly as far as the rope can reach. But with light, the sky is the limit."
The kor of Zendikar are known for quiet determination in the face of overwhelming odds.
When properly aligned, hedrons become powerful tools of binding.
"Walk now in my light. When the rest of the world closes its eyes, you will still see." —Iona
"The sun can warm your skin or blister it, nurture your crops or wither them, light your path or blind you. She is a fickle friend, but a far worse enemy." —Nazra of the Stone Havens
"The light of a felidar's horns can give even an Eldrazi pause." —Zarra, lullmage
"I've heard it said that a Planeswalker is someone who can always run from danger. But Gideon's right: we're also the ones who can choose to stay." —Jace Beleren
"Our formation was scattered after Sea Gate fell. If you're fighting the Eldrazi, consider us your newest recruits."
"Through all the terrors we face, I hold on to the memory of the world before the Eldrazi came. I'd like to see that world again."
The wastelands disorient even the most experienced scouts, making them easy prey for Kozilek's drones.
In the absence of life, something yet grows.
"For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill." —Ugin
As easy to stop as it is to comprehend.
"We didn't know where it came from or where it was going. All we knew was that we did not matter." —Akiri, kor line-slinger
A void as cryptic as reality itself.
It is consistently inconsistent.
Once a center for knowledge, Sea Gate now serves as a reminder of what was lost.
"Look, and see the future." —Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims
The nomadic kor carry only necessities on their long treks. The coming of the Eldrazi redefined "necessities."
Forged for victory in a time of despair.
Greenweaver Mina and her twin brother Denn lead the last of the Mul Daya into an uncertain future.
"Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation."
"The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos."
"For the life of every plane, I will keep watch."
"If it means that people can live in freedom, yeah, I'll keep watch."
As Gideon kept the brood lineages at bay, Chandra incinerated the bound Eldrazi titans.
"I have suffered a thousand lifetimes of agony on this wretched world. I've far less time to share with you, but I assure you, no less pain." —Ob Nixilis
"Drana commands me. I command my nulls. And so her bidding is done."
In its shadow, everything changed.
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.
It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave.
He answers questions as readily as he asks them, but his answer is always "no."
"For the sake of the Multiverse, I will keep watch."
The makers and menders are the first called to battle and the last to leave.
"For justice and peace, I will keep watch."
"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!"
"Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!"
"I've heard it said that a Planeswalker is someone who can always run from danger. But Gideon's right: we're also the ones who can choose to stay." —Jace Beleren
As easy to stop as it is to comprehend.
A void as cryptic as reality itself.
It is consistently inconsistent.
"You thought I wouldn't see that coming?"
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
"If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours."
"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest." —Riku of Two Reflections
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
"Power is wasted on the weak. They never keep it for long." —Nicol Bolas
At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress.
"Let the flames ignore the sinless."
"Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates." —Ghoulcaller Gisa
Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered.
"For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill." —Ugin
"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope" — Nissa Revane
Inspiration comes in all shapes and sizes.
"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky." —Greenweaver Mina
All of these old relics have one thing in common. Every last one of them is made of smithereens. —Zada of Slab Haven
The mind of an Eldrazi is a puzzle that can never be solved. The trick is to make sure a piece goes missing. —Jace Beleren
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it." -Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.
When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.
"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."
"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."
"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy." -Surrak, khan of the Temur
Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.
"Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours."
Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.
Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon.
The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help.
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.
The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales.
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive." -Niv-Mizzet
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price-him." -Thalia, Knight-Cathar
The wave of lava seared cloth from skin, skin from flesh, and flesh from bone.
"What fun it is to ride and sing a slaying song tonight!"
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
"Let your heels point you home." —Ancient blessing
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest." —Riku of Two Reflections
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space —vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"I'd rather see the guilds contend together with words in the halls of power, than in the streets with swords." —Jace Beleren
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.
"Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs."
"Does Teysa think me blind to her scheming? Ambition runs in our family."
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the Predator crashing into his stronghold."
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.
He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath —or wishes it could." —Karador, Ghost Chieftain
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"My skills are wasted here." —Juruk, Kalonian tracker
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
His roots reach deep and grip hard.
Those who do not submit will be consumed."
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —Scroll of Beginnings
Every movement is a summons —even your screams.
"Ruhan would never agree to such terms." —Ruhan of the Fomori
"Behold astronomy's contribution to war." —Fennor Rhyl, starcaller
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock." —Scroll of Beginnings
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds." —Esara, healer adept
Her hunger will not be denied.
"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled." —Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"Did you have a nice nap?" —Liliana Vess
When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.
The terrors of the Underworld travel alongside those who return to the mortal realm.
Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Soaring is wasted on the winged." —Edric, Spymaster of Trest
To Jin-Gitaxias, perfection is not a goal, but a process.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits." —Nekusar, the Mindrazer
"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"I appreciate things that exceed expectations." —Mizzix
First the insult, then the injury.
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"Four parts molten bronze, yes … one part frozen mercury, yes, yes … but then what?"
"I see more than other because I know where to look." —Saprazzan vizier
"You were saying?"
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi." —Expedition journal entry
I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must." —Kaalia of the Vast
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.
"You have not died until I consent."
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
Some protection requires a bit of finesse.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
Enter to find wealth, security, and eternal life . . . for just a small price up front.
"The unnatural pressures of life in this city are best withstood by lifeforms that adapt with unnatural swiftness."—Momir Vig
Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
"I love what they've done with the place."—Liliana Vess
Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective.
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
"Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!"—Rayne, chancellor of the Tolarian Academy
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."—Volux, disciple of Nin
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
A symbol of power and wealth, the only commodities that matter to the Orzhov.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"—Jhoira, master artificer
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."—Melira
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?"—Mairsil, the Pretender
"Gods don't die. They merely slumber."—Ayli, Kamsa cleric
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."—Koth of the Hammer
As Serra was to learn, the peace and sanctity of her realm were as fragile as glass.
The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."—Agrus Kos
"In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass."—Cluestone inscription
Selkies call to a sea they never swam, in a tongue they never spoke, with a song they never learned.
Losing his possessions distressed him, but the lack of limbs was strangely liberating.
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
"Look beyond, to the vascular awareness that all life is a map to greater knowledge."—Momir Vig, Biomancy, vol. I
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
Coins of the Underworld are shaped from clay funerary masks.
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy.
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."—Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."—Ranalus, vedalken heretic
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."—Jarad
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win."
She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."—Modruni, maro-sorcerer
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
Nature doesn't walk.
The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey.
The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.
His work determines who is remembered and who feeds the worms.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."—Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"The land grows only where the kami will it."—Dosan the Falling Leaf
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."
"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances."—Simic research notes
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.
"Obey!"
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.
He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books.
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"—Nicol Bolas
Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth.
The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
"Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit."—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."—Gaddock Teeg
It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
"You'll bend to my will—with or without your precious sanity."
Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.
When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
Giants share nothing but their fury.
"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."—Zul Ashur, lich lord
If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discreet to dissolve one's victim entirely."—Szadek
"Death is no excuse for disobedience."—Liliana Vess
Death is no excuse to stop working.
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."—Sheoldred, Whispering One
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."—Phyrexian progress notes
A drop of humanity for a sea of power.
"Sometimes the grave does not wait for death before relishing its feast of flesh and bones."—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
Merchants of the Underworld trade in coins of clay. Gold serves another purpose.
"Never forget that the life you've built can be undone by a single loose thread."—Perisophia the philosopher
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road.
"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."—Sorin Markov
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
The waters of wisdom are as dust in the mouth of one who thirsts for power.
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."—Gorghul, augur of skulls
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it."—Barrin, master wizard
Knowledge fills the mind of a fool and opens the mind of the sage.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious." —Garild, merfolk mage
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be." —Agosto, Azorius imperator
"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome."—Speaker Trifon
"This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty."
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
"I've come to reclaim what is mine. And you, Greven, are mine."—Volrath
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
Weather is more predictable than the Izzet.
"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
"I'll leave subtlety to the rich."
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."—Kaalia of the Vast
The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion.
A blazing sun that never sets.
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows."—Seal inscription
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.
"Belief is the strongest mortar."
She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.
"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?"—Polyxene the Doubter
"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error."—The Invokers' Tales
"The numbers of Nyxborn among us have swelled. Is this a sign of the gods' favor, or does it portend something else?"
"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."—Josuri
Not all silences are easily broken.
Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.
"United, our roar will level mountains."
"I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest." —Riku of Two Reflections
Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space.
"I'd rather see the guilds contend together with words in the halls of power, than in the streets with swords."—Jace Beleren
The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay.
"Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs."
"Does Teysa think me blind to her scheming? Ambition runs in our family."
He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions.
"My skills are wasted here."—Juruk, Kalonian tracker
His roots reach deep and grip hard.
"Those who do not submit will be consumed."
Every movement is a summons—even your screams.
"Behold astronomy's contribution to war."—Fennor Rhyl, starcaller
"Fate is not as fixed as you might think."
Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies.
Her hunger will not be denied.
"May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."—Meren of Clan Nel Toth
"Did you have a nice nap?"—Liliana Vess
When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest.
The terrors of the Underworld travel alongside those who return to the mortal realm.
Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it.
To Jin-Gitaxias, perfection is not a goal, but a process.
"Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"I appreciate things that exceed expectations."—Mizzix
"You were saying?"
"As long as I stand, so will your cause."
Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.
"He's paid his price. Now you pay mine."
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
Young Eldrazi crawl forth from the dust, compelled by a greater will.
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.
The gods known to the merfolk as Ula, Emeria, and Cosi were nothing more than false memories of a monstrous trinity: the Eldrazi titans Ulamog, Emrakul, and Kozilek.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
The Eldrazi may be ruthless, but Zendikar is relentless.
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
"When a limb is gangrenous, you cut it off. This is no different."—Greenweaver Mina
The land is dying, but it will not go peacefully.
"We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."—Greenweaver Mina
Once, water ran here. Now only dust and ash fall from the clifftops.
Neither subtle nor pretty.
Each time it is sent to find a safe haven, it takes longer to return.
Also called "pathway stones," hedron shards can immobilize Eldrazi on contact.
"You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned.""And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace.
The last hedron slotted into place, locking Ulamog in an infinite loop of binding energy.
"It may be unconventional, but I'll take any steady mount in a storm."
"Great steel is born in the hottest forges. Great soldiers are born in war."
After many years as a lullmage, Noyan Dar turned his talents from allaying Zendikar's fury to the considerably easier task of rousing it.
They came from all walks of life, from every part of Zendikar, and they returned with one unifying cause.
"The seedlings scream for us to loose them upon the Eldrazi, and we shall oblige."
"The land will not wait for the enemy to arrive."—Nissa Revane
"The taste of freedom is sweeter than blood."
As the soldiers beneath her raised their voices, the angel spread her wings, their span seeming to cover the sky.
As the great scourge passed by, Zendikar shivered, then lay silent.
"Some Eldrazi, their purpose is obvious: suck the life out of the land, birth new Eldrazi. Others aren't so obvious, and those are the ones that make me really nervous."—Chadir the Navigator
"While we delay, they're on the move. They will not wait as we bicker. We are losing this war by moments as our goal slips beyond our reach."—Gideon Jura
The only traces it leaves are silent gusts and prodigious amounts of wreckage.
"The elements understand better than anyone that actions speak louder than words."—Gideon Jura
It knows nothing of Eldrazi or Planeswalkers, just that there are new intruders in its territory.
Her rallying cry reaches far beyond the Tajuru elves, inspiring all those who hear it.
"In its time of hardship, all of Zendikar cries out in pain. Are you listening?"
"My mount needs neither reins nor bridle. We both share a common purpose."
"As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."—Nissa Revane
"Nissa is not the only one with a deep connection to Zendikar's primal elements."—Kiora
All of Zendikar's beings sense the upheaval that accompanies the Eldrazi.
"In my downtime I used to paint the vistas. Now the vistas disappear faster than my downtime."
Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.
"If I die, feed me to a shambler. At least that way I'll be doing some good."—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
"This world tires of its long occupation."—Nissa Revane
The elf's blade carved deep into the Eldrazi drone's fleshy lattices. Without a sound, the drone lost equilibrium and tumbled from the sky.
"It might fight the Eldrazi, but don't mistake it for a companion, Gideon. It's not interested in your concept of strength through unity."—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru
"The world was not hostile to us—we were beneath its notice, and presented no danger."—The Invokers' Tales
Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her.
"Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we."
"If you're not prepared to fight, you'd best be prepared to die."
"The land is not dead, merely sick. I will nurse it back to health."
On Murasa, even the trees grow trees.
"Zendikar has given us the weapons to wage war on the appropriate scale."—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru
"I always thought the great insects of Tazeem were frightening until I saw the Eldrazi. Now I welcome the sight of mantises perched in the treetops."—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout
The native creatures of Zendikar have adapted to live under rocks and crawl through underbrush in order to avoid the most voracious predators. The Eldrazi have yet to make such adjustments.
"They come because I call. They stay because I listen."
The Eldrazi don't merely extinguish life—they supplant it.
The battle served as a grim reminder of what a final victory for the Eldrazi would mean.
Every Eldrazi in Ulamog's lineage is an extension of the titan's will.
Ulamog's progeny swarm the land, draining Zendikar's mana to feed the titan's insatiable hunger.
The tenderness of a mother. The pity of a mantis.
A blisterpod's corpse is a scion's cradle.
"A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be."
Like a living organism, Zendikar rids itself of infection, and it does so abruptly and ruthlessly.
"Whatever volcanoes dream of, it seems like they always wake up grumpy."—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
"As long as we have walked this world, we have known it as a harsh and unforgiving place."—The Invokers' Tales
As Ulamog's brood reduces the earth to dust, geopedes burst from their tunnels in search of solid ground.
To survive imminent doom, it sometimes takes a foolhardy soul who acts first and fears later.
Akoum can make any intruder look small.
Saved from certain death by the kor, he considers himself bound to them by an unbreakable blood oath.
"Zendikar is always angry, though I've never seen that anger so precisely directed."—Nablus, North Hada trapper
"You have a family. Mine died at Sea Gate. You go to yours, and I'll go to mine."
The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.
Everyone who could still lift a weapon had a part in retaking Sea Gate.
"Put a minotaur at the head of an army and suddenly all the soldiers act like they have horns."—Gideon Jura
After a battle, it breaks the hillsides into manageable pieces to prepare for next time.
Goblins were first to see the potential of hedrons in the fight against the Eldrazi, for the magical stones came ready-made with pointy bits.
"The Eldrazi may not be intimidated, but if it boosts the goblins' confidence, I see no reason to discourage it."—Jalun, Affa sentry
"Come on, you twisted things! Don't you want to get acquainted?"
"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."
With a single act of bravery, she went from expendable to indispensable.
"Whiptails can sense a traveler's footsteps from a great distance. Measuring that distance has been . . . difficult."—Jalun, Affa sentry
Emrakul has not been seen in months. Though her brood's numbers have dwindled in her absence, each drone is still a deadly threat.
"No, don't! Nal, it's me—"
Some wounds never heal.
Ulamog's processors trail behind him, converting ruined matter into furious energy.
"Some detours just aren't worth it."—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter
It moves through the tunnels as slowly and surely as the shifting stones.
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.
"Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now that's dangerous."
"These days, there's no shortage of food for the nulls of Guul Draz."—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
For vampires, blood carries more than life. Memories long eroded from the minds of bloodchiefs can be reclaimed from the veins of their sired kin.
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.
Nirkana assassins craft incurable concoctions by mixing basilisk marrow and deathwillow sap with the vital fluids of a dozen other poisonous species.
"They are deadly, and they are loyal. We can spare them a little blood."—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch
"Kalitas may have returned to mindless servitude beneath the Eldrazi, but we say never again."—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"Time and again, I have demonstrated my skills as a healer. Why, then, are you so ill at ease?"
"It's hard to find their weak points, but I very much enjoy the discovery process."
When Malakir's surgeons failed, its death-shamans took over.
"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."
"Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise."—Ob Nixilis
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"Later we will mourn those we have lost. First we must end their suffering."—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
Vastly outnumbered, the Zendikari found creative ways to even the odds.
"Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades."—General Tazri, allied commander
"I will secure my revenge on Zendikar one soul at a time."—Ob Nixilis
"Fear of the unknown can be a wonderfully innocent thing, relatively speaking."—Anowon, the Ruin Sage
The Eldrazi rampaged across Zendikar in a tide of chittering, heaving flesh.
"I watched it pass at a distance. When I looked back to my companions, Najet was dead."—Akiri, kor line-slinger
It consumes any dreams of victory.
As the hand closed, there was first terror, then numbness, and finally nothingness.
Silence rules Bala Ged, broken only by the skittering of Eldrazi.
"We returned to the field and found poor Len, every detail of his final moment perfectly cast in that awful dust."—Javad Nasrin, outrider captain
"Do you see? All of Tazeem strains at its tether."—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage
"You speak to me of the threat of Ulamog. But do not forget: they came as three."—Ugin, to Jace Beleren
Having gone to the trouble of stealing a bident from a god on another world, Kiora was eager to test its capabilities.
Weather on Zendikar is unpredictable—unless you're the one telling it what to do.
"Quiet the waves? Why would I want to do that?"
"I can't control its mind—I'm not even sure it has one. But I can dominate its will."
"I said we should destroy the Eldrazi. Ugin wanted to return them to stasis. Ugin's arguments were . . . unconvincing."—Jace Beleren
"Quiet now, you dreadful vermin."—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage
"She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there."—Jori En, expedition leader
When Emeria's worshippers learned that she was no more than a twisted memory of Emrakul, they abandoned their temples to the god. The deserted shrines now serve as breeding grounds for the mantas.
There are more sights on Zendikar than the eyes can see.
Divining the future is easy when you hold the power to sway it.
It didn't do much, but the residents of Sea Gate gave it a wide berth all the same.
Whatever it is searching for, it will stop at nothing to find it.
If you can see it, it's too late.
The wastes spread as quickly as the wind.
The touch of an Eldrazi brings life and death in turn.
"We are nothing but dust to them—our bodies, our actions, even our words."—Jori En, expedition leader
"The seas are no less imperiled than the dry lands. This fight is mine as much as it is yours."—Kiora, to Gideon Jura
The kor's pride in their independence has given way to a strong sense of community that embraces all of Zendikar.
In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison.
"These days, soldiers never stick around long enough for a proper healing. They just want me to knit them up so they can hurry back to the fight."
After watching the kor in battle, Gideon understood the difference between working together and working as one.
A few bands of kor sought refuge from the Eldrazi in Zendikar's vast cave networks, relying on their ability to survive in harsh vertical landscapes.
"I can give you strength, but you'll have to bring your own courage."
"We can use their hunger to lead them into danger. If we're already prey, we may as well be bait!"—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
"May your horns get lodged in an Eldrazi's bony face, ornery brute!"—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
Working with his noble mount, he notices every form on the horizon, every scent in the air, every tremor in the earth.
"Even in the hands of amateurs, Nahiri's hedrons can harm the Eldrazi."—Ugin
Hedron lanterns fend off more than just the darkness.
"We came into this world together. We fight for this world together. We'll leave this world together."
"He told us not to worry, and he walked into the cavern. The swirling mass of Eldrazi parted to admit him, then closed in his wake."—Akiri, kor line-slinger
The high-pitched whirl of a hook is the only battle cry she needs.
"The wind in one's hair, the sun on one's back, the joy of open skies . . . the next generation of kor must know this kind of peace."
"For the lands you have lost and the beauty that remains, for freedom and the future, we must hold nothing back!"—Gideon Jura
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"
"Suddenly, Gideon was there with us, clearing the way so that we could escape."—The War Diaries
Mystics of the Stone Havens call upon the spirits of fallen heroes to defend the refuges.
The refuge's defenses allow new recruits to see lesser Eldrazi up close, steeling their stomachs for what's to come.
It surveys the withering landscape, waiting for a victory only it can see.
Felidars that make it through their first year of life can easily live to see a hundred years more.
The unofficial motto of every expedition house is "ready for anything," a phrase whose significance has been amplified since the emergence of the Eldrazi.
"Sea Gate has fallen. Survivors are on the move. Will send another griffin when we find refuge. Stay hidden. Stay safe."—Message from Tars Olan, kor world-gift
Though losses run high among the scouts of the Stone Havens, they never flinch from their duty.
"Zendikar will triumph this day, and our armies will fly with angels."
"No more fear. No more failure. No more death. No more!"
"Have you ever seen a world fall to its knees? Watch, and learn."—Ob Nixilis
A force as voracious as time itself.
Dust and memory are all that remain in Ulamog's wake.
"Our people and our very lands disappear as if they never were. We no longer fight for glory, or honor. We battle now for the right to exist."—General Tazri, allied commander
The Eldrazi continue to sweep through the wastes, compounding destruction that already seemed absolute.
The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.
"In the dark places of our world, something horrible is growing. I fear our foes may be more numerous than we had imagined."—Nissa Revane
Though Gideon arrived at Sea Gate too late to prevent the massacre, he still had enough time to lead its survivors to relative safety.
It embodies all possible meanings of the word "infinite."
"No matter how big your champion, theirs is bigger. No matter how great your numbers, theirs are greater. No matter how voracious your appetite, they are hungrier. That is why the Eldrazi will win."—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog
"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."—Munda, ambush leader
"Over and over it rose. Over and over we fell."—Ganda, Goma Fada deserter
"There are some who have lost everyone and everything. They actively seek out the Eldrazi, eager for the smallest measure of vengeance."—Munda, ambush leader
The continent of Bala Ged was ravaged by massive Eldrazi of Ulamog's lineage, its lush jungles and cascading rivers reduced to dust.
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes.
The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay.
The gods known to the merfolk as Ula, Emeria, and Cosi were nothing more than false memories of a monstrous trinity: the Eldrazi titans Ulamog, Emrakul, and Kozilek.
The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers.
On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air.
The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground.
The last hedron slotted into place, locking Ulamog in an infinite loop of binding energy.
After many years as a lullmage, Noyan Dar turned his talents from allaying Zendikar's fury to the considerably easier task of rousing it.
They came from all walks of life, from every part of Zendikar, and they returned with one unifying cause.
As the soldiers beneath her raised their voices, the angel spread her wings, their span seeming to cover the sky.
As the great scourge passed by, Zendikar shivered, then lay silent.
The only traces it leaves are silent gusts and prodigious amounts of wreckage.
"The elements understand better than anyone that actions speak louder than words." —Gideon Jura
Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all.
Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her.
"They come because I call. They stay because I listen."
"A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be."
The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.
The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed.
"This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders."
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.
Terrible fury. Excellent aim.
As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek.
"I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me."
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it." —Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it." —Drana, Kalastria bloodchief
"You speak to me of the threat of Ulamog. But do not forget: they came as three." —Ugin, to Jace Beleren
"I can't control its mind—I'm not even sure it has one. But I can dominate its will."
Hedron lanterns fend off more than just the darkness.
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"
"They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!"
It surveys the withering landscape, waiting for a victory only it can see.
"Have you ever seen a world fall to its knees? Watch, and learn." —Ob Nixilis
A force as voracious as time itself.
The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.
Though Gideon arrived at Sea Gate too late to prevent the massacre, he still had enough time to lead its survivors to relative safety.
It embodies all possible meanings of the word "infinite."
"With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood." —Munda, ambush leader
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.
"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."
Each temple is a door to a horrible future.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?
"While we delay, they're on the move. They will not wait as we bicker. We are losing this war by moments as our goal slips beyond our reach." —Gideon Jura
Once thrown, twice burned.
"The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw." —Jaji, magmaw worshipper
Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.
"Play no favorites. Everybody dies." —Sparkmage saying
Wordlessly it leads its abhorrent brood.
"Before I hire new recruits, I test how long they can hold their breath. You'd be surprised how often it comes up." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
All the angel saw was her doom.
"Others ask why the Eldrazi destroy. I ask why they preserve." —Ganda, Goma Fada deserter
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi.
"The brood lineages unfolded across the world, each patterned after one of three progenitors, each a study in mindless consumption." —The Invokers' Tales
"Whatever the Eldrazi's purpose is, it has nothing to do with something so insignificant as us." —Nirthu, lone missionary
Your pleas for death shall go unheard.
The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause.
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
"We suffer uneasy ground, unstable alliances, and unpredictable magic. Something you can truly trust is worth more than a chest of gold." —Nikou, Joraga bard
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us." —The Invokers' Tales
Its territory is defined by wherever it is at the moment.
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs." —Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.
Adventuring bards recite Chanter's Epics, never-ending tales that keep their comrades' minds alert to danger.
The Roil redraws the world as it passes, leaving only the hedrons unchanged.
"This world will not be tamed."
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
He'll cleave wood and bone alike to carve a path for his allies.
"The elders say Zendikar has no safe, peaceful places. How would they know? They've never looked."
"Petrifying gaze, deadly fangs, knifelike dorsal spines, venomous saliva . . . Am I missing anything? . . . Toxic bones? Seriously?" —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it.
"'Invincible' is just a word." —Gideon Jura
As the hedrons began to coalesce into colossal Eldrazi superstructures, the griffins were forced to seek new territory lest their aeries be crushed between the massive stone monoliths.
Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
2015 Vintage Championship Winner
2015 Legacy Championship Winner
"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel." —Priest's teaching
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
Sudden vengeance, echoing fury.
Wounded soldiers looked up, grateful for her appearance. But she passed over them, her eyes firmly on their foe.
She enraptures all, encompasses all, endures all.
No more shall the righteous cower before evil.
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir." —Yasova Dragonclaw
That which endures, survives.
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her." — Daghatar the Adamant
"Every choice alters the path of fate." — Sarkhan Vol
"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."
The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness.
The essence of nature is change.
"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."
Chandra's gift set her apart and others aflame.
In the moment before her execution, she realized what it meant to be a pyromancer, to be alive, to be Chandra.
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.
Life is such a fragile thing.
Life is such a fragile thing.
"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."
"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."
Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates.
"Master your mind, or I shall master it for you."
He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade.
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.
It's the favored mount of military commanders as well as anyone with a flair for the dramatic.
The spear thrown by Kytheon's own hand was the weapon that felled his friends.
Kytheon and his irregulars worked outside the law to bring justice to the streets of Akros.
Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.
"The desire for its magic horn inspires such bloodthirsty greed that all who see the unicorn will kill to possess it." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability." —Maggath, Sardian elementalist
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising." —Ashiok
"Another day. Another avenging angel. Another clump of feathers to toss in the trash." —Liliana Vess
Destiny is a flickering path among tangled possibilities.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach." —Terhold, archmage of Drunau
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
"Even from miles away, I could see our eagles circling. That's when I knew we were needed at home." —Kanlos, Akroan captain
"Guilty."
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
The reverberations course through the warriors' veins, beat with their hearts, and pound with their footfalls as they charge into battle.
"I've broken three swords, eighteen lances, and countless shields, but this little blade has survived every battle, just like I have."
The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen.
With each honor he earns, Gideon paves the path to his redemption.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
As unstoppable as it is unsteerable.
"I hope to meet Jaya Ballard someday. I think we'd get along." —Chandra Nalaar
Wear it on your dominant hand and it will follow your lead.
One orb to guard the body, one to protect the mind, and one to shield the soul.
"And if I'm lying," he began . . .
A true scribe devotes an entire lifetime to the creation of a single volume, a masterpiece as unique as its maker.
Its blessings are as numerous as the stars of Nyx.
The histories speak of two feuding rulers whose deaths were celebrated and whose monuments symbolized the end of their wars. In truth they were peaceful lovers, their story lost to the ages.
The wealthy in the city of Ghirapur outfit their lives with grand machines, entrusting even their children to filigree and gears.
Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither.
The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers.
Loyal to a fault, it heeds its master's every command.
"Faith can quicken the stones themselves with life."—Writings of Mikaeus
It contains the totality of Alhammarret's notes, theories, and ponderings.
A weapon best suited for those with good aim and steady hands.
"Her people angered Zendikar, and they faced the land's wrath. That is why Nissa is the last of the animists."—Numa, Joraga chieftain
Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin.
To the elves, her spear is a compass; to the boggarts, a harbinger of doom.
A stitcher's attempt at a skaab with a soul.
Accustomed to battling before an audience in the arena, Iroas's champions know how to put on a good show.
"I am the first line of defense. You will not encounter the second."
Unpredictable as a storm and destructive as a tidal wave.
"The bloodlust shall not control me, for my oath is my greatest compulsion."
It tears the flesh from your bones and then swallows the ash with its fiery maw.
"I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."—Nissa Revane
"Nature can't be stopped. It rips and tears at Ravnica's tallest buildings to claim its place in the sun."
Nissa had only the space of a heartbeat to react, her instincts steering her blade.
Nissa found that the vines of the marsh could ensnare just as well as forest vines could—maybe even better.
"A long and difficult incision revealed that all vital organs are housed in the head, save for a long chain of stomachs, forty in all, leading from its throat to the end of the tail."—Mulak Ffar, Vastwood Biodiversity
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
Their strength is no mere numbers game. An intangible force augments the wolves when they run together.
The only thing more ill-tempered than a griffin in a web is the spider that must subdue it.
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
"Pick not the rotten fruit, but neither touch the best. Leave those as an offering for our unseen guests."—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness.
The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.
"Why does everything the Golgari touch end up sticky?"—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
"A single tree does not a forest make. We are stronger when we stand together."—Numa, Joraga chieftain
Not all spiders need webs to catch their prey.
The distinction of bearing the gods' banner is nothing compared to the glory of being closer to Nyx.
The essence of nature is change.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
"I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."—Nissa Revane
"Come, my beautiful brothers and sisters. Let us hunt."—Dwynen, Gilt-Leaf daen
"This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty."
"Your swords and wards have no power here."
"The rare and beautiful butterflies inspire the design of our thopters. The larvae, however, are a different story entirely."—Kiran Nalaar, Ghirapur inventor
Drakes can swerve to avoid a single arrow, but they can't dodge the whole sky.
It moves through lava with the force of an erupting volcano.
When things get ugly above ground, goblins resort to alternate routes of passage.
The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
She will not be content until hers is the highest head in the sky.
"Trying to stop it would be foolish. If you feel it coming—run!"—Sergeant Ryda
In time, not even the fire monks could keep up with Chandra.
"Canyons in the Phoberos badlands are essentially gates to the Underworld."—Mirinthes, Akroan captain
If you can't take the heat . . . well, that's going to be a problem.
Chief among the tenets of Purphoros is that one must destroy in order to create.
"Don't be rude, Beleren. We just want to enjoy the view with you."
The harpies descended without mercy upon Akros, only to find their attack put them within range of the javelineers.
The metal must be pure. The hand must be steady. The product must be perfect.
The city of Ghirapur is a living thing, and living things defend themselves.
"Well, this got out of hand."
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.
Chandra's gift set her apart and others aflame.
If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly.
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
Nothing of nature nor of mortals can stand forever.
Ravnica's most ancient streets take on a life of their own. A few have decided to move to nicer neighborhoods.
In the moment before her execution, she realized what it meant to be a pyromancer, to be alive, to be Chandra.
"They started it."
He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader.
As the price of wood and coal rose, smiths found creative ways to keep their forges burning.
Waste follows want.
She learned a tragic lesson that day: even the purest can be corrupted when the heart's emotions are twisted.
Proud Alkmenos, who would not bow to Erebos in death, is now bowed by his own hubris for all eternity.
Liliana viewed the attention of the angels as a testament to her power. Even so, they were an annoyance.
"Get up. You're not finished yet."—Liliana Vess
"Not all nightmares can be escaped by waking."—Ashiok
"I will not rest until the stench of eyeblights is eradicated from these woods."
"Drink this, brother. It will bring you rest."—Liliana Vess
Once he gets up and going, he will forever shamble on.
Born from the slaughter of an entire army, it bears the wrath of a hundred souls.
Driven away by his living kin, he wanders mourning through the wilderness, seeking the dead city of Asphodel.
"I was not convinced you had a soul until I saw it for myself."—Liliana Vess
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
She haunts the streets, wings spread wide, with carrion on her breath and blood in her eyes.
Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power.
Ravnica would be safer if mere coin was all the Dimir could steal.
"The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace."—Nantuko teaching
Each cut stains his blade with fresh blood that he samples to increase his strength.
"All dead move to the hollow rhythm of necromancy."—Savra
Life is such a fragile thing.
"I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you."
One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
"I've already seen so much evil, so much darkness. Why do you insist on adding more?"—Nissa Revane, to Dwynen
"Boggart blood disgusts me almost as much as the foul creatures themselves."
Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates.
Ending her life won't end the infestation.
On Innistrad, Liliana embraced necromancy, honing her powers by practicing on scores of undead—and sometimes the living.
"The entire murder scene was covered in dripping, oozing slime. No need for a soothsayer to solve that one."—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
"Your flesh is unprepared for my gifts."
"Master your mind, or I shall master it for you."
"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide
"Ribbit."
Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited.
"You've never considered the implications of dealing with another telepath, Jace."
He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade.
Three heads are better than one.
Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
"As long as each side thinks it can win, the balance holds, and the mage-rings stand."—Alhammarret
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.
"The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach."—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
The owls learn of mana from the mages who know it best.
"I know what you're thinking," Jace whispered in the mage's mind. "It's not going to work."
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation.
To stand as a guardian of the sea, one must possess the resolve of a mounting wave.
"Where's the fun in an escape if it's not at least a little daring?"
"I don't need your mage-rings or your mana equations. I call, and the sea answers."—Keyta, rebel hydromancer
One faerie distracts the judge while a second steals the law.
Stray into the Morkrut and it may rise to claim you.
The sea respects no boundaries, least of all the coast.
It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with.
After stripping the sunken ships, it rises to the surface for another helping.
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
Alhammarret rose to his feet, and the full force of his mind hit Jace like a storm front.
"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not."—Ludevic, necro-alchemist
The artificers of Kaladesh strive ceaselessly for perfection, progress, and the ultimate expression of elegance.
It was in fields of grain, not fields of battle, that the Champion learned to bear the yoke of duty to the gods. She worked the land long before she was called on to defend it.—The Theriad
"When you are felled by my mace, you shall know it was divine fate."
It's the favored mount of military commanders as well as anyone with a flair for the dramatic.
They became a single entity, a phalanx in the Temple of Triumph standing against a host of enemies.
The spear thrown by Kytheon's own hand was the weapon that felled his friends.
It is hunted, but not for the kill. The magic within draws others to its presence.
"My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone."
"A master of hieromancy can see the advantage in any scenario."—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
The portcullis is superfluous.
"Bant's most gallant knights wear my sigil, and for that I am humbled."
"Every death has a web of consequences. Our job is to find the spider."
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly."—Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
"Seal the gate. This is our fight now."
Kytheon and his irregulars worked outside the law to bring justice to the streets of Akros.
"To be a knight, Gideon, is to be the shield for the meek against the cruel."
Doors, walls, skulls . . . it matters not. All barriers will be broken.
The ethereal touch brings relief. The physical touch brings peace.
Creatures of darkness instinctively hide from the light.
"There is power in abandon, but far more in control."—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon
True faith is letting the blade fall without parry. True cunning is using that moment to strike a deadly blow.
"I do not reject the gods. I reject their authority, their pettiness, and their arrogance."
War after war, a healer's enemy is always the same—death itself.
Four claws, two wings, one beak, no fear.
"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression."—Gideon Jura
Not all heroes die in armor.
When the shadow of the aven falls across the battlefield, hope rises in the hearts of the soldiers.
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
"Arise. You have been anointed by the light. Go forth and fight without fear, for you shall be victorious."
"It's all a game. You shouldn't get too attached to the pieces."
He ensures escape attempts are just that—attempts.
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape." -Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
"As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles." -Yasova Dragonclaw
His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands.
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be." -Agosto, Azorius imperator
An eye closes. A race awakens.
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
Each temple is a door to a horrible future.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Magnetic devices that keep massive golems and structures standing can also be used for the opposite purpose.
"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
As the dawns break, the manta soars.
"We consider rust a curable disease." —Tarrin, Hammer-Tribe shaman
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.
The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.
Long ago, the priests would wave the gohei to call down the gods. Now it lies forgotten, but the spirits still feel its pull.
When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator.
"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.
Phyrexian smog clouds choked the skies, threatening creatures who couldn't comprehend the menace below.
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.
"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
Now etched only with the scars of phyresis.
Its predecessors were etched with the wisdom of ancients; its own etchings bear warnings of a future fraught with war.
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.
"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
"We will fight as they do: our flesh protected behind metal." —Tae Aquil, Viridian weaponsmith
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
"We thank the souleaters for inscribing our souls with subservience, to reinforce the sacred order." —Drones' hymn of gratitude
With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance.
Any being that harms them quickly learns its lesson.
"A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy." —The Seer's Parables
Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields.
"Unsafe Terrain Ahead—Turn Back" —Sign near the former location of Pyrtagh Cairn
After his hands had crumbled away, leaving only wickedly sharp points, he decided his only purpose was war.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.
"For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty."
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example." —Trigori, Azorius senator
Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone." —Rakka Mar
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales." —Ranalus, vedalken heretic
Even the oldest treefolk was but an acorn when Lorwyn's first mysteries were born.
"We coat ourselves in steel every day. What is etherium but the next logical step?"
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
"The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'" —Veszka, Selesnya evangel
When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.
The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return.
What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
Centuries of wind, rain, and roots compressed into an instant of destruction: such is the power of Selesnya.
Simic initiates begin their training as experimental subjects. Failures are flushed to the undersewers.
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs." —Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge.
From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
When nature calls, run.
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"I trust the instincts of any beast over the advice of any human who presumes to be an expert in the art of war." —Rinshel, elf insurgent
"Let the song of Selesnya be heard above the rhythm of our thundering hordes!"
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
"Sympathy is for weaklings. Whoever survives, wins." —Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
When outsiders interrupted the matca championship, things got ugly.
It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think.
The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow.
"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours." —Saidah, Joraga hunter
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants." —Borzard, exterminator captain
"When the fifth sun rose, Mirrodin saw its first true dawn." —Inscribed on the skin of Thrun, the last troll
It lurks just under the surface, using the algae-choked tar pits of Jund as both home and hunting blind.
"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed." —The War Diaries
Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a big appetite.
"I'll fight two at once, and then lick their guts from my blades."
"Fire is the universal language." —Jhoira, master artificer
Blood is holy to those whose god is War.
"I know just the person for that job."
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
Now that he knows a thousand ways of hurting people, his next shamanic quest is to discover a thousand more.
When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
"Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame."
The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.
A light an army can follow.
"Down here, we have a more pointed version of the scriptures." —Urabrask's enforcer
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
War paint made from kolya fruit heightens senses and lessens fear. Unfortunately, fear is usually what keeps you alive.
A rock between your eyes hurts. A burning rock between your eyes ruins your whole day.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
The farther he roamed from Jund and its dragons, the more he felt their essence in himself.
Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.
"Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!"
"Ogres taunt the dragons by moving into their territory, but even the hellkites find them too much trouble to hunt." —Marza, mountain scout
"The changing kind suffers as we do. We must join as one to quench our tyrants!"
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"Once each year, the oni and other evil spirits paraded through villages to disturb mortals' sleep. During the war, this parade became a nightly event." —Observations of the Kami War
Some vampires reject the decadent trappings of their kind. Once they turn feral, no amount of blood will satisfy their hunger.
The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
His sickle was forged in the heat of another cinder's funeral pyre.
"Have you ever killed insects nibbling at your crops? I think that's what the Eldrazi believe they're doing to us." —Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
Dragons consider drakes to be mockeries of their perfection, destroying them on sight.
Though you may see the same bones, you'll never see the same skeleton twice.
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies." —Savra
Just as a changeling's influence can have dramatic effects, so too can its sudden withdrawal.
Many have heard the beginning of its low, sustained shriek but few the end.
"The results of our ninth inoculation were the same. The specimen was, of course, euthanized before the contagion could spread." —Vedalken research notes
Even the small wounds let hope bleed out.
In desolate places, changelings may take the shape of fancies, or memories, or fears.
The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within.
Each Eldrazi ancient spawned a lineage of horrors in unfathomable shapes.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere." —Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
There are few ways to escape the deathmark: bargaining with a demon, washing in the fabled waters of youth, and of course, death.
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
Greatness, at any cost.
The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.
Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi.
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
Changeling magic grants unusual wishes.
"This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless.
"More of that strange oil . . . It's probably nothing."
The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be." —Agosto, Azorius imperator
For the Azorius, the law can be a physical shield against chaos and anarchy.
Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
"It's so cute when it's sleeping, isn't it? Actually, it's still as abhorrent as ever, but at least it's not trying to kill us." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
"See how gratefully this world accepts our blessings." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
Hurkyl's research at the College of Lat-Nam wasn't enough to stop the two brothers, but for centuries thereafter her spellcraft taught artificers restraint.
"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood." —Heidar, Rimewind master
"The sky teems with just as much life as the forest or the deep seas." —Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver.
"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within." —Noboru, master kitemaker
Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury.
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power." —Orim, Samite inquisitor
"I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me." —Sorin Markov
"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows." —Skyhunter creed
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends." —Journal found in Numai
The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly." —Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."
"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them." —Lord Konda
No more shall the righteous cower before evil.
"Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand." —Auriok proverb
"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith." —Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."
Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.
"Let the deception of the gods yield to the pure light of day." —Brimaz, king of Oreskos
Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.
"They say only the good die young. Obviously, you are one of the exceptions." —Delrobah, cleric of Ivora Gate
Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.
"Whatever the Eldrazi's purpose is, it has nothing to do with something so insignificant as us." —Nirthu, lone missionary
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
The seed of a world's evil.
"While we fought, the il surrendered." —Oracle en-Vec
After losing several of the devices to midair collisions, Greven forbade moggs from operating telethopters.
"It'll get us to the portal, but I can't guarantee what it'll do to the ship." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"They are convenient in having no souls, but less so in having no spirit." —Volrath
"Just when I get them working, they always start fighting and tearing at each other for spare parts." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger.
"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."
"Here."
"Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone." —Crovax
"In Barrin's name!" cried Lyna as Hanna's sword passed through her, "Ertai sends word that the portal is open—but not for long!"
It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.
The bite of the tinviper feels most like a razor drawn across the tongue.
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more." —Mogg march
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk." —Karn, silver golem
"We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole."
"Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you."
"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry." —Mogg children's rhyme
Her children are ever part of her.
"I am light. I am dark. I must give my life to serve; not even death can release me."
Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.
The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"Only the most sophisticated inventions can survive nature's unsophisticated motivations." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Burl, scurf, and bower Birth fern and flower.
"Peace will come, but whether born of harmony or entropy I cannot say." —Oracle en-Vec
These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass.
"As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'" —Dal myth of the wurm
The elves and merfolk have nothing but bitterness for each other. The trolls, however, find them both rather tasty.
"It is our duty to endure." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.
As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk.
"See how you like it." —Ertai, wizard adept
Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.
Mirri did not have time to think, only to react.
"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
The rain is driven like nails.
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
Hope is the one crop that can grow in any climate.
"Full of beauty and grace, with a predator's instincts . . . Although she wanders, I have always thought Mirri belongs in Llanowar most of all." —Rofellos, Llanowar emissary
Unlike their cousins, Rathi basilisks turn their victims into puddles of flowstone.
"A perfect reflection of its world: brutal, fetal, and lacking truth." —Oracle en-Vec
A bristling wave of slivers broke against the Weatherlight's timbers.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
Wind in the trees is soothing, but the same can't be said for trees on the wind.
To snare what lies between worlds takes the patient reach of trees.
Changing Rath's landscape is like tearing the scab from a wound.
These are its last days. It is doomed to be remembered only until the hunters hunger again.
As the bough stretches, so shall you grow. As the roots spread, so shall you thrive.
Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin.
The hunter would never forget the time or place where he first met the carnassid, for they buried him there.
"We know our place in the cycle of life—and it is not as flies." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Squee bounced up and down. "I sees a horsey, an' a piggy, an' a—" "If you don't shut up," hissed Mirri, "you'll see a kidney and a spleeny."
"The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within." —Lyna, soltari emissary
"I concede it was a cheap shot, but it was the only one I could afford." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I know to whom I owe the most loyalty, and I see him in the mirror every day." —Starke
A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth.
"Such fuss over machines, Gerrard. Remember that you are the prize of the Legacy. Throw away your toys!" —Orim, Samite healer
"You've not seen a storm until you've seen the kind that roars between worlds." —Lyna, soltari emissary
"I used to describe something stable as 'rock solid.' So much for that expression." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Most creatures grow out of their baby teeth, but sabertooth wyverns grow into theirs.
"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the Predator. "It is Greven's mind manifest."
"His tongue must be honey, the way he gathers ants to fight with him." —Volrath
Wrap the flame as twine, Kingdoms will be thine.
"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!" —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Ogre shamans must be bright enough to learn their invocations and dim enough to use them.
Stand clear if he gets an itch.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Torahn's horns! They've seen us. Now, statue, you must fight to save yourself!" —Tahngarth, aboard the Predator
Only by sacrificing any semblance of defense could Gerrard best Greven.
Living below a flowstone foundry produces a disproportionate number of fire mages among the il.
"Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick."
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do." —Selenia, dark angel
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.
Furnace air crackles with magmatic cackles.
"Where I come from, stone stays on the ground." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
Once these horrifying creatures were perfected, there was no need for armodons.
"Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight." —Karn, silver golem
"I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black." —Oracle en-Vec
"Carrion! Keep your distance. My blade will come to you!" —Crovax
What is high as a mountain and low as a snake? —Dal riddle
"Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered.
Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the Weatherlight.
"I'll take that. You won't need it when the revolution comes."
"Every act of destruction has a repercussion." —Karn, silver golem
"It is the nature of evil to turn you against yourself." —Starke
The hounds' barks are a horrifying chorus of screams, moans, and whispers.
"Just take a little off the top."
The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
"If it tastes one drop of elvish blood I will cast it from the shroud to see it burn." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
A hiss before dying.
"They are called 'fowl' for a reason." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Not again." —Hans
"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare." —Crovax
"You will learn to earn death." —Volrath
"These creatures offer new challenges in the scrutiny of entrails." —Oracle en-Vec
"My enemies' death yields threefold benefit: removal, reuse, and research." —Volrath
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"My ship . . . ," Sisay mumbled. "Intact," Gerrard reassured her, "which is more than I can say for you, my friend." Sisay laughed despite the pain.
A sickness stirs in its eyes, a nightmare born in darkened wails.
Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
Life has always been a dance. It is only fitting that death sing the tune.
For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home. As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled.
As the sludge below began to shift and take shapes, Gerrard turned from the railing to Orim. "I suppose," he said, "it's a little too late for prayer, isn't it?"
"They have knives for every soul." —Lyna, soltari emissary
"The dauthi came from beneath the ruins one night, and the darkness cast them in the best possible light." —Soltari Tales of Life
"All dauthi are jackals, regardless of breed." —Lyna, soltari emissary
"If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it." —Volrath
"It is the way of most wizards to begin by exiling themselves and to end by exiling everyone else." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
A farewell to arms . . . and feet . . . and legs . . .
"Rage is the only freedom left to me."
"There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail." —Volrath
"One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Eating is all it knows.
"Mine."
"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Orim regarded Gerrard coolly. "You are like the drake," she said, her expression unchanging. "It works hard to maintain its position, but to us it seems to glide along effortlessly. You must do the same."
"Flying like a bird does not make you as free as one." —Volrath
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge." —Crovax
"No home, no heart, no hope." —Stronghold graffito
Battles are won in nuance.
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.
"Let's do it again!" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Gone today, here tomorrow." —Ertai, wizard adept
"You see our world when you shut your eyes so tightly that tiny shapes float before them." —Lyna, to Ertai
They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness.
Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force.
"Twice I have let the Legacy slip away. Never again." —Karn, silver golem
Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with.
"History is a potent weapon." —Karn, silver golem
"Bitter water, vicious wave; Shadow-cold shallows, root-made maze. Home's angry embrace." —Rootwater Saga
"A jigsaw puzzle that lives, breeds, and thinks." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
In the depths of Rootwater, salvage and sewage differ only in texture.
"Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up." —Ertai, wizard adept
From its maw comes neither word nor whisper—only wind.
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy." —Volrath
Squee tucked the warm ball in his pocket and slipped a pebble in its place. "Glok," he mumbled, and hid.
Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
"So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath." —Selenia, dark angel
Cross the eyes of a hammerhead and you'll dot its teeth.
"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives." —Ertai, wizard adept
Two things are needed to survive the harsh skies of Rath: a thick hide and a thicker skull.
From nothing came teeth.
"To think that some find sleep a restful state." —Volrath
Within without.
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.
"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die." —Oracle en-Vec
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence." —Oracle en-Vec
Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive kor people.
The ceiling and the floor fell in love, but only the wall knew. —Dal saying
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!" —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.
Death free throat from thirst, mouth from speech, feet from earth. —Kor requiem
"Dauthi blood is soltari wine." —Soltari Tales of Life
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Prayer rarely explains." —Orim, Samite healer
"In times of war the victors rarely save their best for last." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"You've got your childhood wish at last. Now you get to die." —Gerrard, to Volrath
Shackles of gold are still shackles.
"The cannon wasn't aimed at you!" pleaded Vhati. "I'm not sure which is more pathetic," replied Greven, "your judgment or your aim."
"Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart."
Frozen by conscience, Karn did not resist as the moggs carried him to the Predator.
"The silkworm spins itself a new existence. So the healer weaves the threads of life." —Orim, Samite healer
The kor forsake roots for the winding of the path, forsake voices for the silence of the mind, forsake all else for the poverty of isolation.
"A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The true treasure no thief can touch.
"One cannot cleanse the wounds of failure." —Karn, silver golem
Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!"
"Forgive me," Mirri whispered. "I thought you a burden, and you saved my life." Hanna quietly accepted the apology.
If dragons excel at anything more than vanity, it is greed.
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."
It was not the minotaur's shoulders but his soul that bore the heaviest weight.
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."
The Weatherlight dragged the Predator behind it, the cradle hauling the casket.
Takara shook with guilt. She knew the last image her father had seen was her sword flashing toward him.
"I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits." —Tahli en-Dal, bounty hunter
Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other." Mirri: "After they're done trying to kill us, all right?"
"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait." —Crovax
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.
The bigger the hand, the higher the price.
While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri.
A howl on the wind hides many dangers.
Only those who have proved themselves worthy are granted a dragon's scale.
"Your enemies may be cowardly, my lord, but one should never call them gutless."
Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises.
"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
Kolaghan goblins rush into battle to satisfy their desire for violence as well as their desire not to be eaten.
"The ainok are wild dogs, not fit to join us around the fire." -Surrak, the Hunt Caller
If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it.
"There are many different paths. The Great Teacher reveals them all."
The changing of a single moment in Tarkir's past altered its future, rewriting its history.
Weakness exists within all who are not dragons.
To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited.
Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.
"Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world." -Jilaya, Temur whisperer
Anger can empower those who embrace it.
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
"Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting."
Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible.
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded.
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again.
The land is ever resilient. Should it die, it will be reborn.
Designed by an ancient artificer, the vials are strong enough to hold the very breath of a dragon—until it's needed.
"Abzan, Jeskai, Sultai, Mardu, Temur—names lost to history, yet worthy of further study." —Narset
"Dragons are our betters, but we will fight them if our dragonlord orders it."
Silumgar dominates his clan from a fortress on the Marang River, where he rests upon piles of treasure.
Ojutai spends time at all his strongholds, but he most favors Cori Stronghold for his meditation.
Kolaghan has no lasting home, but her disciples leave relics to mark her conquests.
"It sees all, but it reveals what it sees only to a chosen few." —Taigam, Ojutai master
Dromoka rules her clan from the Great Aerie atop Arashin, the central city of the Shifting Wastes.
The idols were forged during the time of the Khanfall, when the dragons came to rule Tarkir and its people aligned themselves with the five dragonlords.
Silumgar delights in repurposing the treasures of other clans to serve his own ravenous greed.
Atarka is worshipped and fed by her subjects at Ayagor, the Dragon's Bowl.
The mage awakened the statue in hopes of learning the lost lore of her clan, but the statue was interested only in war.
"Bring forth the dead, their skull-grins and rattle-bones. We will feast upon their wailing ghosts." —Silumgar, translated from Draconic
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.
Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly.
Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence.
Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
"That which is beautiful in form can also be deadly." —Ishai, Ojutai dragonspeaker
When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.
"Boasting impenetrable defenses only draws the most tenacious of attackers." —Yikaro, Atarka warrior
"The greatest honor is to feed Atarka."
The Atarka use them not just for food, but also to clear away snow, trees, and enemy forces.
"The Silumgar creep around our borders and infiltrate our aeries. We must remain ever watchful." —Golran, Dromoka captain
Dromoka's scalelords patrol the skies over Arashin, offering her people safety from the harsh world.
"Dragons in flight seldom expect company." —Kadri, Dromoka warrior
The list of things a krotiq eats is as long as the krotiq itself.
"Sad what passes for a dragon among the Silumgar."
"The sands obscure the vision of others, but clarify ours." —Faiso, Dromoka commander
"Show your enemies as much mercy as they would show you." —Surrak, the Hunt Caller
"Even paradise is not without tragedies." —Sarkhan Vol
The remains of ancient civilizations litter the run-down land.
Once it has your scent, it will hunt you from the Gurmag Swamp to Ayagor.
Despite the flames and devastation of the dragons, Tarkir continued to thrive.
No matter the timeline, some legends will endure.
The simplest gift from a dragon can be a revered accolade for a human warrior.
Bears are a delicacy for the Atarka. The few that remain are the toughest of their species.
Atarka's presence thaws the glaciers of Qal Sisma, forcing its elementals to migrate or adapt.
The colossodon's hard outer shell stops many predators, but with a gentle flip from a dragon, it quickly becomes a meal in a bowl.
Many can stand where one would fall.
They whisper of an ancient hero who saved the dragons of their world.
It exemplifies the ideals of the Dromoka: strength, unity, and honor.
He scorns the heavy winter garb of lesser warriors, trusting his anger to keep him warm.
"In the Tarkir I once knew, the Abzan revered their ancestor trees. Now, as Dromoka, they cut their finest groves to make weapons." —Sarkhan Vol
"The bravest warriors take the shortest path to victory, whatever that path may be." —Sakta, Atarka hunter
"As we have learned from Kolaghan, to ruin is to rule." —Shensu, Kolaghan rider
Kolaghan archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They utilize their dragonlord's lightning to strike their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.
A mocking laughter echoed in Ugin's mind. How many centuries had he slumbered, stricken, while Nicol Bolas moved unchallenged among the planes?
Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.
"Kneel before a dragon and you will be spared when it turns to leave." —Yikaro, Atarka warrior
"Do you not hunt the yetis of the high peaks, stripling? Their meat is as tender as a bear's and their blood as warming as fire. They are prey that will please Atarka." —Surrak, the Hunt Caller
The storms of Tarkir awaken more than dragons.
The shaman opened the earth beneath their feet, trapping the survivors within the crevices of Ayagor for Atarka to devour at her leisure.
"My dragonlord's lightning will dance upon your bones!"
Sarkhan gazed on the world around him, the dragons sweeping through its skies, and joy kindled like a fire in his soul.
The people of Tarkir speak of an ancient legend, of the dragon-man called Sarkhan who was greatest of all khans.
"Intruders in the lands of Atarka have but two choices: be consumed by fire, or be consumed by maw." —Ulnok, Atarka shaman
The sky offers few hiding places.
"It hunts grand game for Atarka, and when the time comes, it will become a mighty feast." —Surrak, the Hunt Caller
"Our shamans assert their mastery over the land, thwarting the lesser clans' attempts to stand in the way of our dragonlord." —Allek, Atarka hunter
A lifetime of discipline forsaken in a moment of rage.
She answers the call of the Crave, the desire for battle sated only by bloodshed.
"It is most honorable to use every part of the animals we kill . . . especially if we use them to annihilate our enemies." —Surrak, the Hunt Caller
"If their ears are to the ground, we will make them bleed!" —Taklai, Kolaghan warrior
"Just let him loose and follow the charge." —Yikaro, Atarka warrior
Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal.
Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows.
Dragons emerge from tempests fully formed and terribly hungry.
Atarka conquered Qadat, the Fire Rim, long ago, winning over its efreet with a promise to spread the glory of fire to all the world.
"Atarka's people starve while she feasts upon the bounty of their hunts. They must conquer ever more lands just for the sake of their own subsistence." —Arel, Unseen Whisperer
The crumbling temples on the tortoise's back are monuments to the decadence of the ancient Sultai. Though it harkens back to the era of the khans, Silumgar allows it to walk his territory as a warning to those who would oppose him.
"This pestilence robs us of glorious death in battle. We starve to death with full bellies and drown trying to slake our unnatural thirst." —Kerai Hatesinger, Kolaghan warrior
"The realization that one is dying is far more terrifying than death itself." —Sidisi, Silumgar vizier
"The Silumgar hide behind the deadly wildlife of their swamps. They'd rather scheme in their jungle palaces than face us." —Khibat, Kolaghan warrior
Silumgar takes pride in the diversity of his sibsig.
"I almost envy them. They can't get frostbite." —Kirada, Silumgar enforcer
"The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle." —Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
"Worse than watching the cruelest deed is watching it done by your own hand." —Baihir, Dromoka mage
Debts to rakshasa linger beyond death.
Dying for the greater good still hurts.
Draconic words need not be shouted. A whisper will suffice.
"The Ojutai are my favorite victims. They have so much knowledge to lose." —Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer
Now vengeance is his sole purpose.
The gurgling of the Marang conceals both footsteps and screams.
Kolaghan's army rushes from kill to kill, desperate to avoid the dragon's wrath.
Silumgar trains those whom he favors in his magic, granting them the ability to spread his disdain across the land.
"Lord Silumgar has given you a second chance to please him." —Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
Foul-Tongue shamans draw their powers from a dark twisting of the Draconic language.
The cycle of life and death is rarely pretty.
Like their dragonlord, the Kolaghan take no trophies. They find true fulfillment only in the battle itself, in clash of steel and thunder of hooves.
The dragon who eats the last head in the basket is entitled to the servant's.
Sarkhan was eager to take vengeance on Zurgo until he saw how lowly his old foe had become.
"Wars are decided one life at a time." —Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior
"I am a dragonslayer for Lord Silumgar. There is no dragon save him whom I fear." —Xathi the Infallible
"Seclusion is only an option for the strong." —Sorin Markov
"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps." —Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
Sidisi hated to limit her options.
"Every Silumgar blade carries the blessing of our dragonlord." —Xathi the Infallible
The Crave made Kneecleaver think she was bigger than the dragon.
Kolaghan blades rarely stay clean for long.
"We are as brutal as our dragonlord. We strike like wild lightning and feast on human flesh."
"Ojutai's rule has allowed Tarkir's monks to learn from the truly enlightened." —Sarkhan Vol
"Too dumb, and you end up a sibsig. Too smart, and you end up a meal. Mediocrity is the key to a long life." —Mogai, Silumgar noble
"It slips through the smallest cracks in the mountain, emerging whole and unfettered. There is nowhere it cannot go, for what can hold back the air itself?" —Chanyi, Ojutai monk
Ojutai's words must be translated from Draconic before his students can benefit from their wisdom.
"I tire of your prattle, and your face."
A dragon learns humility only in the moments before its death.
"The most profound secrets lie in the darkest places of the world. It can be prudent to make use of another set of eyes." —Sidisi, Silumgar vizier
"Though I may soar, I could never fly as high as the dragons."
"You cannot be an Ojutai monk. They prize wisdom and skill, and you have neither." —Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
"Still the mind and quiet the heart. Only then will you hear the Multiverse's great truths." —Narset
Who you are constantly runs toward who you will be.
"I've been told my whole life that the great Ojutai holds all knowledge, but I wonder what our forebears knew." —Narset
The small are mostly ignored by dragons.
Rakshasa waste no opportunity to display their wealth and power, even in the midst of a sorcerous duel.
"Learn to see an obstacle from a new perspective. Underneath, for example." —Chanyi, Ojutai monk
The Ojutai believe in the Great Wheel: those who best serve the dragonlord are destined to be reborn as dragons.
Those who question Ojutai may not like the answers they receive.
Their lust for battle was so great that they didn't care their enemies wore their own faces.
"When I have meditated on all outcomes, my opponent has no recourse."
"Why eat now what could one day grow into a feast?" —Ojutai, translated from Draconic
"Such lesser creatures must be purged from the sky. What use do they have but to help channel the lightning of our mighty dragonlord?" —Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior
Though she stood alone, she struck with the force of an army.
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape." —Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
"Human enlightenment is a firefly that sparks in the night. Dragon enlightenment is a beacon that disperses all darkness."
"His companions are wise to follow him, for his foes dare not stand in his way." —Zhiada, Dirgur protector
Better scarves than scars.
"The Shifting Wastes provide our clan eternal protection. It is our duty to return the favor." —Kadri, Dromoka warrior
"Your bravery honors us all." —Dromoka, translated from Draconic
"May our foes choke upon its horns!" —Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
With heat, sand can form a delicate work of art; with pressure, an impenetrable bulwark.
"If the scalelords are the brains of Dromoka's army, the supply caravans are its beating heart." —Baihir, Dromoka mage
The Shifting Wastes are Dromoka's domain. She will not tolerate intruders.
"If I fight, I might step on a butterfly. That would be sad." —Krowg of Qal Sisma
It heralded Sarkhan's return to Tarkir's present.
"The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings." —Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
The trumpeters of Arashin are ever alert in their watch over the Great Aerie.
"Can you catch a snowflake on the edge of your blade? Her sword has snagged an entire blizzard." —Zogye, Ojutai mystic
When Sarkhan saved Ugin in Tarkir's past, it changed Tarkir's future. The Sultai no longer exist, having been supplanted by the dragonlord Silumgar and his clan.
"My dragonlord is immortal. Most dragons are not." —Kadri, Dromoka warrior
Even after Anafenza was executed, many secretly maintained their beliefs in the old ways.
Dromoka has regard for the humans who serve under her. In return for her protection, they obey with steadfast loyalty, acting as weapons for her and her scalelords against the other clans.
"The dragonlords rule the tempests of the skies. Here in the wastes, the storms are mine to command."
"We fight not out of fear, but for honor."
Even the humblest guard of Ojutai's strongholds ponders the puzzles of the Great Teacher's lessons.
"Dromoka has taught me the secrets of her kind, that I might use them in her service."
"The blood of Dromoka and the blood of my veins are the same."
"There is elegance in all the Ojutai do—even their killing." —Kirada, Silumgar enforcer
The aven are admired, for they are able to fly with the dragons.
"I would gladly give my life if it would inspire my clan to victory."
Martyred for worshipping her ancestors, she now walks among them.
For hundreds of years Ugin slept, encased in the cocoon of stone and magic Sarkhan had created using a shard of a Zendikari hedron. As Ugin lay dormant, his spectral guardians kept vigil.
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.
The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved.
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.
An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes.
Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence.
Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family.
When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice.
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.
Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion.
"The greatest honor is to feed Atarka."
It exemplifies the ideals of the Dromoka: strength, unity, and honor.
Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.
Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make.
"Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps." —Siara, the Dragon's Mouth
"We are as brutal as our dragonlord. We strike like wild lightning and feast on human flesh."
"We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape." —Urdnan, Dromoka warrior
"I would gladly give my life if it would inspire my clan to victory."
Martyred for worshipping her ancestors, she now walks among them.
"When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas." —Kiora
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design." —Momir Vig
"Everything serves a purpose. Even you." —Vorel of the Hull Clade
The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea.
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales." —Ranalus, vedalken heretic
"She may call herself Kiora but I believe she is Thassa, the embodiment of the sea and empress of the depths."
"Nature was slowly heading in the right direction, but we know how to achieve faster results." —Vorel of the Hull Clade
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs.
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"I will never run out of new oceans to explore or new sea-dwellers to embrace as my own." —Kiora
"I can see why this appeals to Thassa." —Kiora
Surrakar grab things they don't want.
"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains." —Esper fable
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."
"Learn not only from the failures of the past, but also from its triumphs." —Isperia
"Truth is a straight, keen edge. There are no soft angles or rounded edges. To fight for truth, we must forge in steel."
"Courage is a proud and gleaming shield. It does not bend or hide from sight. To fight with courage, we must forge in steel."
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power." —Orim, Samite inquisitor
"Bant sentries were called the Angel Line. They never faltered, and they were ready to die defending their position." —Elspeth
"I was called to this world of steel, and it will be my steel that answers." —Elspeth
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.
"In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back."
She will not touch a weapon, yet she is the greatest protector her people have ever known.
"Such deeds should be common fare for such as us." —Anax, king of Akros
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly." —Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
"On every plane I've encountered loxodons, I've found stalwart and loyal friends." —Elspeth
"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."
"If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy."
They're trained in the art of pressing their luck.
Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air.
"Our death-arrows flew in high arcs towards the aven. And then . . . nothing." —Coliseum guard
Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished.
"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?" —Polyxene the Doubter
"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail." —Cymede, queen of Akros
"The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both."
"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression." —Gideon Jura
"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"
"All tinkerers have their heads in the clouds. I don't intend to stop there."
"No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death." —Tasigur, the Golden Fang
"When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun." —Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her." —Daghatar the Adamant
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir." —Yasova Dragonclaw
A howl on the wind hides many dangers.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.
"If you must die today, make your death worthy of legend." —Alesha, Who Smiles at Death
"Greet death with sword in hand."
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"
"Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory." —Mytha, Temur shaman
"Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory." —Mytha, Temur shaman
"The family is a tree, and in times of need, every branch can be a weapon." —Daghatar the Adamant
"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."
"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."
"Our victories will protect a thousand generations."
Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break.
While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri.
The most skilled Jeskai artisans can craft imposing golems with such precision that they will last an eternity—the time believed necessary to master the Fires of the Jeskai Way.
"Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world." —Jilaya, Temur whisperer
The best swords are forged with dragonfire.
Dragonfire spawned many imitations. Some were more dramatic than others.
"No sun or fire can warm my blood quite like a war flare." —Urut Barzeel, Mardu hordechief
"No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death." —Tasigur, the Golden Fang
"When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun." —Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
The Shifting Wastes provide refuge to those who know where to look for it.
The invader hoped he could survive the beast's jaws and emerge through its rotting skin.
The energies of the Temur lands are readily unleashed upon intruders.
"The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her." —Daghatar the Adamant
"The opponent who blocks the path, becomes the path." —Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
"Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir." —Yasova Dragonclaw
A howl on the wind hides many dangers.
She speaks only in whispers but can be heard over the fiercest storm.
The Temur see themselves as a pack, their bonds more primal than the Abzan's.
"There is no secret buried so deep that we will never find it." —Kurtar, Sultai necromancer
First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come.
A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis.
A single battle affects countless others.
"Dragons are feared for their breath and their bite, but it is their wings that make them unconquerable. Bring them to earth, and they die like any other beast." —Kassur, Sultai hunter
Dragons scorn the weak, even among their own kind.
"I will be the ancestor my descendants call upon for aid. On that day I will take up my sword for my family once more."
Each bronze disk on its harness is an offering from a young Temur hunter, a sign of respect to the spirits of the wild.
In a stunning act of diplomacy, Yasova Dragonclaw ceded a portion of Temur lands to the Sultai. Her clan protested until they saw she had given the Sultai the breeding grounds of the krushoks. They hadn't realized she had a sense of humor.
After countless attacks on the Salt Road where it passes through the frozen tundra, the Abzan began to refer to the area as Atarka territory rather than Temur lands.
The glittering scales in the Abzan vaults represent mighty deeds of the past and protection for generations to come.
Krushoks clear debris from fertile fields, fallow fields, and battlefields.
"We think of the naga as creeping cutthroats, slitherers in the swamps. But they are equally at home in the trees." —Goton, Qal Sisma shaman
The Abzan merchants soon discovered why this route was clear of dragons.
"The Mardu rush headlong toward extinction. We ensure the longevity of our clan by protecting our territory, not rampaging through it."
His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands.
Never mistake deception for cleverness.
The efreet are drawn to the Kaisham Wanderers, a loosely organized Jeskai school where trickery is employed to challenge the status quo and upend the belief systems of others.
Dragons of the Kolaghan brood are always on the move. They are the driving force behind the Mardu's nomadic way of life.
"Take inspiration from your enemies, and make their strengths your own." —Alesha, Who Smiles at Death
The Mardu all enjoy war, but only the goblins make a game of it.
Dragonslayers learned to keep silent about their deeds after seeing the terrible vengeance wrought by Kolaghan and her brood.
No clan is as adept at saying "go away" as the Temur.
"You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind." —Houn, Jeskai elder
"The Mardu are like the gore swine. We are wild, hunt in packs, and rarely clean the blood from our blades." —Vallash, Mardu warrior
"Never tell goblins to 'fire at will.'" —Urut Barzeel, Mardu hordechief
Anger can empower those who embrace it.
"Dragons in the skies of Tarkir—for the first time, it feels like my home." —Sarkhan Vol
"I have no clan, but I still have purpose."
It is much easier to create fire than to contain it.
"If the Mardu were more in tune with their beasts, they would not scare so easily." —Jilaya, Temur whisperer
Bloodfire practitioners train to focus their rage, building it deep inside themselves until they are ready to release it as a devastating attack.
The scent of cooked flesh lingers in the charred landscape of Tarkir.
"If you must die today, make your death worthy of legend." —Alesha, Who Smiles at Death
"Greet death with sword in hand."
When Tasigur sent his ambassadors to the Abzan outpost, the true envoys were not the naga but the infectious rats they carried with them.
The cruelest tortures leave no mark upon the flesh.
To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited.
"They were your friends, your family, your clan. They want only to welcome you." —Tasigur, the Golden Fang
"Is it better to be a fool or a coward? Fools may get things done occasionally, but cowards live longer." —Ghelesh Shadowmane, rakshasa mage
"Hear me, nameless, and obey."
"Words have yet to halt an arrow."
Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work.
He enjoys his work, for he sees only the worst Abzan criminals: those who betray their own kin.
If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective?
So long as death follows life, the supply lines of the Sultai will never be cut.
On Tarkir, dragons emerge from enormous tempests, phenomena tied to Ugin's very presence on the plane.
The Mardu warrior was overjoyed when Tasigur set him free and granted him passage through the jungle. He failed to notice the Sultai leader's cruel smile.
"Our emissaries are gifted negotiators." —Alesha, Who Smiles at Death
The first khans of the Sultai relied on the magic of the rakshasa to ensure the survival of the clan.
Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas.
Every time he returns from battle unscathed, he feels a tinge of disappointment.
"Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?"
The defenses of the Abzan extend well beyond the walls of their fortresses.
Boundaries drawn on maps or marked with stone have no meaning for the Mardu.
The charm of a naga is undeniable.
The maneuvers of the Abzan formation intrigued Ojutai in both their complexity and their futility.
Few truly live in the moment.
"Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory." —Mytha, Temur shaman
A skullkeeper is the first to arrive after the palace archers strike down intruders, probing their brains for choice bits of knowledge.
"Show the enemy the true path, and the spirit will yearn to follow it." —Houn, Jeskai elder
"Before you can open your third eye, you must prove you can open the first two."
"Every failure, every death only makes my strength greater."
"To defeat your enemies, you must remove their ability to make war against you."
"The quieter the skies, the calmer the mind."
"The bells may one day ring as an anthem of our own end." —Kyu, Sage-Eye mystic
The currents of the Marang wash away both tracks and blood.
"The lotus takes root where body and mind intersect. It blooms when body and mind become one."
"The one who conquers the mind is greater than the one who conquers the world."
"As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles." —Yasova Dragonclaw
"Study the topography of your enemies, and you will have a map to victory." —Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest
Dromoka's brood emerge from the dragon tempests covered with tough scales that protect them from most clan weapons and magic.
"Learn from your enemies, but do not tolerate them."
"Every choice alters the path of fate." —Sarkhan Vol
Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.
In the Shifting Wastes, more are killed by sand than by steel.
"The family is a tree, and in times of need, every branch can be a weapon." —Daghatar the Adamant
By studying dragon anatomy, Jeskai monks have learned how to locate clusters of nerves that will incapacitate even the mightiest dragons.
"Speak little. Do much."
"Those who died in battle deserve their rest."
Every action has a foreseen purpose.
It seldom rains in Abzan lands. When it does, the khan marks the occasion by honoring the families of the fallen.
Perfectly suited for life in the Shifting Wastes, the krushok is well protected by its horn, its hide, and its temper.
"Dragons seek war. I bring it to them."
He has spent years training his eyes and ears to detect the subtle signs of a dragon's approach.
"Our victories will protect a thousand generations."
"We do not hide from the dragons that pretend to rule the skies. If we did, the dragons would become our rulers, and our way of life would be lost."
"We'll have time to put out the fires when those trapped within the ruins are safe."
"A tempest is coming. Turn your faces toward the wind!"
"To survive, you must seize every opportunity." —Daghatar the Adamant
If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it.
The bigger the hand, the higher the price.
Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises.
While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri.
"Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world." —Jilaya, Temur whisperer
A howl on the wind hides many dangers.
Only those who have proved themselves worthy are granted a dragon's scale.
Anger can empower those who embrace it.
Lightning burns the dragon's path.
"The ainok are wild dogs, not fit to join us around the fire." —Surrak, the Hunt Caller
To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited.
"Your enemies may be cowardly, my lord, but one should never call them gutless."
Weakness exists within all who are not dragons.
"There are many different paths. The Great Teacher reveals them all."
Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war.
The changing of a single moment in Tarkir's past altered its future, rewriting its history.
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
The land was left depleted and empty, an unsettling taste of things to come.
"She will come back to me."
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war." —Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching, trans. Feng and English
Rishada is the gateway to free trade — but the key will cost you.
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
You thought I wouldn't see that coming?
The wave of lava seared cloth from skin, skin from flesh, and flesh from bone.
He's paid his price. Now you pay mine.
As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles. —Yasova Dragonclaw
His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands.
Kolaghan goblins rush into battle to satisfy their desire for violence as well as their desire not to be eaten.
You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten.
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
"Who said there are no assurances in life? I assure you this is going to hurt."
After the fourth time Chandra left a place engulfed in flames, she decided to just go ahead and make it her thing.
Reach out and torch someone.
The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper.
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.
His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch.
When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation." —Karn, silver golem
When he hits people, they stay hit.
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"You aren't invited."
The pyromancer summoned up her mightiest onslaught of fire and rage. Jace feigned interest.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?" —Jhoira, master artificer
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
"Fly us higher, out of its storm." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
"Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal." —Zur the Enchanter
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
Liliana developed a fondness for the moment when roaring becomes squealing.
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
"The bigger they are, the faster they rot."
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize." —Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak.
"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?" —Xathrid demon
Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.
Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.
"Graveyards are sacrilege! A waste of perfectly good bones." —Keren-Dur, necromancer lord
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal."
"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
Nature doesn't walk.
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Nature's strength outlives the strong.
Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his feet be so thirsty?
Hatred outlives the hateful.
Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare.
An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot.
The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days.
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive." —Elvish refugee
"She is truly Wirewood's child now." —Elvish refugee
It teaches you to play dead.
Nature twists knots stronger than any rope.
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious." —A tale of Auntie Grub
"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide." —Kumano, to his pupils
Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate.
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ." —A tale of Auntie Grub
In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die." —Braids, dementia summoner
He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.
"I order you to volunteer."
"Release chaos with me!"
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."
There's always room for one more.
Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling.
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master.
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.
No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
Two times the size, four times the smell.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing." —Seton, centaur druid
The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
It drinks fatigue.
The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts.
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
The Mirari pulses in his veins.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
"Channel your vitality through me."
"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine." —Mayvar, minion of Geth
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?" —Geth, keeper of the Vault
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death." —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
Liliana learned the secrets she sought, but at a price that was etched on her fate.
"Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last." —Phage the Untouchable
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
Its laughter drives needles through your mind.
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.
Don't drink and thrive.
They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line.
"If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out." —Hob Heddil
Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls.
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"My summoning begins your debt, Planeswalker."
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand." —Akroma, angelic avenger
The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.
"Even in single combat, I am never alone." —Rafiq of the Many
"The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns." —Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra
Even those born to battle could only lay their blades at Akroma's feet.
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends." —Journal found in Numai
Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.
"You have not died until I consent."
"The spread of evil's destruction shall always be matched by the rise of the noble fallen."
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills.
"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait." —Crovax
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory.
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."
Even though Urza tried to apologize, Mishra continued to bear a grudge.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"We move because the earth does." —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed." —Koth of the Hammer
A ghoulcaller's playground.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
History has buried its treasures deep.
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Ur-golems once dominated the plane. Even now, they maintain a deep connection to it.
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
"There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared." —Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." —Elspeth Tirel
"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more." —Oracle en-Vec
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?" —Jhoira, master artificer
"A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing." —Melira
"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Garbage in, treasure out.
Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.
"Our glorious infection has taken hold." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
"What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made." —Elvish riddle
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
"He has been to the heart of the wood. Did you truly expect to wield power over him?" —Oakhide druid
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind.
Nature doesn't walk.
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.
"Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections."
No spot in nature is truly barren.
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire." —Halana of Ulvenwald
A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
The infamous Ezuri commands the highest bounty the vedalken have ever placed upon an outlaw.
"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest." —Nissa Revane
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."
"Obey!"
The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the incompleat.
Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?" —Nicol Bolas
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.
"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
The priest cast Xantcha to the ground. "It is defective. We must scrap it."
When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not."
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
"Avacyn has deserted you. I welcome your devotion in her stead."
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."
His victims don't have time to feel despair.
In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it.
"It's only torture if you're strong enough to survive. Otherwise, it's a simple, gruesome death. I'm happy either way." —Liliana Vess
"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage." —Hildin, priest of Avacyn
All that remains of the Cabal are the echoes in its deepest vault. Yet those who hear the echoes feel a power undiminished by the dust of ages.
Death in form and function.
Crovax gazed on the dead, and for one dark moment he saw a banquet.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."
"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
He relishes the devotion of his Skirsdag puppets and their belief that it will earn them immortality.
"Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
"May you wake to find you were only ever a dream." —Mephidross curse
His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.
"Ribbit."
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
"The secret entrance should be near."
"Limitless power is glorious until you gain limitless understanding." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own.
When Lorthos emerges from his deepwater realm, the tides bow to his will and the coastline cowers in his presence.
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
They only appear in emergencies, and emergencies never last long.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover." —Talrand, sky summoner
"I don't have time for you right now." —Teferi
Gerrard savored a grim smile as the Phyrexian portals disappeared behind the Weatherlight.
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
"It's hard to say which is more satisfying: the search for that missing piece or fitting that piece into place." —Evo Ragus
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
"We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived." —Azure creed
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
Dozens of spells known only to the Auriok elders were lost, but the next generation, galvanized by war, devised even more potent magic.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"The dead have it easy. They suffer no more. If breaking their rest helps the living, so be it." —Olka, mistmeadow witch
"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows." —Skyhunter creed
"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
When angels despair, what hope can remain for mortals?
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers.
The path back to the world of the living is murky and bewildering. A geist may not even realize that it's terrifying its own loved ones.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.
"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."
"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."
"Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness."
Its wings disturb more than air.
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
"Trust me, your lost fingers and toes are nothing compared to the lost treasures of Sejiri." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
We all must profit for peace to last. —Mercadian saying
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.
Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten.
"The crucible yields what you have forged in your mind. You need only reach in and draw the masterwork forth." —Wahara, Keeper of the Crucible
Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom.
Every head it rests upon winds up severed.
It harmonizes with the essence of its master.
"Knowledge is a stain that only instinct and ferocity can cleanse." —Drarg, wolfcaller
If you hear it, it's too late.
Few who encounter the strange, human-like grove leave once the lilting chorus of the dryads reaches their ears.
"Hold the line, hold the li—" —General Srok, last words
Pharika has written her secrets on its bones so that only the worthy may discover them.
It claws at the earth in a vain attempt to reclaim what it once was.
"I saw the devastation when the juggernauts crashed the walls of An Karras. Then I got to thinking." —Janji, sylvan druid
Its wings beat to the howls of war and fan the fires of rage.
Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath.
"Where a lesser mind sees junk, I see infinite potential."
Nothing breaks the monotony like a good old-fashioned riot.
"She will come back to me."
"It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs."
"There are always leftovers." —Derecht, flesh carver
It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction.
"Such an affliction appears to seek out the pure." —Byro, plague doctor
"Geralf, must you always whine? I agreed to nothing. I'll raise ghouls anytime I wish."
"Just a taste?"
Most see krakens as wantonly violent, failing to notice their meticulous attention to detail when dismantling a vessel.
What are the orders of a king or the demands of a creed next to such melodies?
These waters remain uncharted, but not for lack of trying.
The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it.
"As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations." —Ajani Goldmane
"They had it coming." —Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick
"We will descend upon you like a plague of locusts to purge you from our lands!" —Hirov, commander of the Thousand Swords
Some protection requires a bit of finesse.
Her presence on the battlefield can transform an unruly mob into a disciplined army.
She arrived like a meteorite, and the enemy fell in a shock wave of holy vengeance.
2014 Vintage Championship Winner
2014 Legacy Championship Winner
Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed.
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
"I can tell you what you wish to know. But first, there is the matter of my fee."
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
"The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands."
Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
"At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end." -Barrin
The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen.
Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.
"An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss." -Ernest Renan, Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse
These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana.
At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members-and the doomed.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size-a weight of strength and of pride." -Agrus Kos
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?" -Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain
"Living side by side with the elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess." -Kolbjorn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
Leylines branch out from its foundation like roots from a tree. These draw mana from every region and welcome all living things into its verdant chambers.
For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." -Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.
"Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences."
After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy.
A devil's hands are never idle.
While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff.
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.
The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.
It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis.
Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." -Liliana Vess
Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch.
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.
His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars.
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere." -Scroll of Beginnings
It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite size.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"Returne from whence ye came. . . ." -Edmund Spenser, The Faerie Queene
Yavaimayae necesse mille annis fuit ut illa aluerent, sed modo momentum necesse fuit ut illa pretium probaverent.
"Even the threat of power has power." -Jeska, warrior adept
The elves had entered a land like an open grave-an act of fortitude or folly?
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered." "Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."
"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you." -Takara, to Eladamri
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter-and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
They exist to cease.
"My family protects all families."
The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.
"Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is: What if my leaves are falling like its own!" -Percy Bysshe Shelley, "Ode to the West Wind"
"It is vain to look for a defense against lightning." -Publius Syrus, Maxim 835, trans. Lyman
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
One pounce, she's hungry-you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs-you're in for a long day.
"And in their blind and unattaining state their miserable lives have sunk so low that they must envy every other fate." -Dante, Inferno, trans. Ciardi
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
"You have not died until I consent."
"Everything in Nature contains all the powers of Nature." -Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Compensation"
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly-they know they cannot be caught.
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!" -Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Temper, temper." -Ertai, wizard adept
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." -Ertai, wizard adept
It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
"You will learn to earn death." -Volrath
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk." -Karn, silver golem
"'Tis a shame, in such a tempest, to have but one anchor." -Laurence Sterne, Tristram Shandy
"One pain is lessened by another's anguish." -William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire." -"Hymn of Angelfire"
"I will . . . tell thee more than thou hast wit to ask." -Christopher Marlowe, Doctor Faustus
Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" -Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war." -Afari, Tales
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." -Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu." -Roya, Zhalfirin archer
My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I? -Femeref riddle
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. -Suq'Ata saying
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." -Daudi, Femeref tutor
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?" -Reveka, wizard savant
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
"Life, struck sharp on death, Makes awful lightning." -Elizabeth Barrett Browning, "Aurora Leigh"
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." -Rabindranath Tagore
His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him.
"Enter this palace-gate and ask the news Of greatness fallen into dust and clay." -The Arabian Nights, trans. Burton
"When good men die their goodness does not perish, / But lives though they are gone." -Euripides, Termenidae, trans. Morgan
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
"We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right." -Vuliev of the Ghost Council
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." -Seal inscription
Hatred outlives the hateful.
The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
". . . Jiang Wei alone still strove with might and main: / Nine times more he fought the north-in vain. . . ."
". . . Zhong Hui and Deng Ai next led armies west: / And to the Cao, Han's hills and streams now passed. . . ."
". . . Near death in Baidi, having reigned three years, / Bei sadly placed his son in Kongming's care. . . ."
"Thrice Xuande's ardent quest led to Nanyang, / Where Sleeping Dragon unveiled Han's partition: . . ."
" . . . Cao Pi, Cao Rui, Fang, Mao, and briefly, Huan- / The Sima took the empire in their turn. . . ."
". . . Cao's abdication changed the face of all; / No mighty battles marked the Southland's fall. . . ."
". . . 'First take Jingzhou, next the Riverlands; / On that rich region, base your own royal stand.' . . ."
". . . Three kings no more-Chenliu, Guiming, Anle. / The fiefs and posts must now be filled anew. . . ."
". . . The world's affairs rush on, an endless stream; / A sky-told fate, infinite in reach, dooms all. . . ."
". . . By six offensives from the hills of Qi Kongming sought to change Han's destiny. . . ."
One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"
"The hum of the universe is never off-key." -Mystic elder
"The admixture of bitterwort in the viral brew has produced most favorable results." -Phyrexian progress notes
The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."
"Once I saw a goblin shouting at a thunderstorm. He lost the argument pretty quickly." -Wandering mage
"She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections." -The Seer's Parables
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." -Sisay
"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain." -Ihsan's Shade
"The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true." -Oliver Farrel
Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, archaeologists search incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era.
Where dragons' breath once burned, their bones now freeze.
Where dragons once roared, their bones now keen.
"The voice calls me here, yet I see only bones. Is this more dragon trickery?" —Sarkhan Vol
That which endures, survives.
Where dragons once prevailed, their bones now sink.
The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace.
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
"The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull." —Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
Where dragons once slept, their bones now rest.
Where dragons once triumphed, their bones now molder.
It strode through the clash of dragons, the fall of Ugin, and the rise of the khans.
All at once Sarkhan's mind fell silent.
Savagery to survive, courage to triumph.
Power to dominate, cruelty to rule.
Speed to strike, fury to smash.
"Water shifts and confuses, but as ice it holds the stillness of truth." —Arel the Whisperer
Discipline to persevere, insight to discover.
Designed by an ancient artificer, the finest Mardu bows are carved from dragon bone and strung with the wind itself.
If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it.
What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat.
The greatest idea the zombie ever had in its head wasn't even its own.
Victory is certain. The price, negotiable.
Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises.
Stone to endure, roots to remember.
"The mountains scream with the dragons' throats." —Chianul, Who Whispers Twice
The wardens guard the sacred documents of Tarkir's history, though they are forbidden to read the words.
Gold buys death. Death earns gold.
"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Meat sustains the body. The spirit requires different sustenance." —Arel the Whisperer
Both his rank and his scars were earned in single combat against a cave bear.
The naga of the Sultai Brood made deals with dark forces to keep their power.
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
Sure-footed, strong-willed, and ill-tempered—and so is the ram.
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
Rakshasa trade in secrets, amassing wealth from their careful revelation.
The Sagu Jungle's thick undergrowth conceals even the largest predators—if they wish to remain hidden.
"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."
"I will wash you from my hooves!" —Mardu taunt
Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
"Death fills me and makes me strong. You, it will reduce to nothing."
"The past and the unwritten are frozen. To understand their meaning requires heat." —Arel the Whisperer
"The Way has no beginning and no end. It is simply the path." —Narset, khan of the Jeskai
The most ferocious saddlebrutes lead the assault, ramming through massed pikes and stout barricades as if they were paper and silk.
Mantis riders know their mounts owe them no allegiance. Even a mantis ridden for years would consume a rider who loses focus for only a moment.
The passing years add new rings to the tree's trunk, bolstering the spirits that dwell within.
Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.
Its wings produce a high-pitched, barely audible whirring sound in flight. Only Jeskai masters are quiet enough to hear one coming.
There are many Jeskai styles: Riverwalk imitates flowing water, Dragonfist the ancient hellkites, and Flying Crane the wild aven of the high peaks.
The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
The crocodiles' putrid jaws swallow everything but the screams.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
"We are the shield unbroken. If we fall today, we will die well, and our trees will bear our names in honor."
"We are the swift, the strong, the blade's sharp shriek! Fear nothing, and strike!"
"The Sultai came hunting for a bear hide. Now I have a belt of naga skin, and my friend has a full belly."
"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy." —Surrak, khan of the Temur
The Abzan avoid extended supply lines by incorporating weapons stores into their battle formations.
The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.
Rarely at rest on the Amber Throne, Anafenza always leads the Abzan Houses to battle.
"These roads are desolate and changeable. Follow me, or die in the wastes."
Even among the hardiest warriors of the Temur, loxodons are respected for their adaptation to the mountain snows.
"When the last dragon fell, its spirit escaped as a roar into the wind." —Temur tale
One quiet word sets off the stampede.
A band of Temur hunters, fleeing the Mardu, dug a hideout beneath such a creature as it slept. The horde found them and attacked. For three days the Temur held them at bay, and all the while the great beast slumbered.
"You can have the body, necromancer. I just want the skin."
"See your enemies from a thousand sides. Then you will find a thousand ways to kill them."
The Temur call the flickering lights the Path of Whispers, believing that they lead the way to ancestral knowledge.
"I am in my element: the element of surprise." —Mogai, Sultai scout
His arrows whistle like a serpent's hiss.
The remains of ancient sky tyrants now feed the war-torn land.
"The amber of the tree and the blood of my veins are the same."
The bonds of family cross the boundaries of race.
Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait.
"Bring down a stag and fix its horns upon her head. This one hears the whispers." —Chianul, at the weaving of Arel
In the high caves of the Qal Sisma mountains, young hunters quest to hear the echoes of their fierce ancestors.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride." —Golran, dragonscale captain
The Temur believe three things only are needed in life: a hot fire, a full belly, and a strong companion.
"When we were lost and weary, the ainok showed us how to survive. They have earned the right to call themselves Abzan, and to wear the Scale." —Anafenza, khan of the Abzan
When Temur warriors enter the battle trance known as "awakening the bear," they lose all sense of enemy or friend, seeing only threats to the wilderness.
Every shaft is graven with a name from a kin tree, calling upon the spirits of the ancestors to make it fly true.
The Temur welcome bears into the clan, fighting alongside them in battle. The relationship dates back to when they labored side by side under Sultai rule.
No battle means more to a Mardu warrior than the one that earns her war name.
Mardu riders' greatest fear is that a battle might end before their weapons draw blood.
"Do you hear that, Sarkhan? The glory of the horde! I made a legend from what you abandoned." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Unwelcome thoughts crowd my mind. Are they my own madness, or the whispers of another?" —Sarkhan Vol
Shintan sensed the malice in his opponent, but he did not strike until the orc's muscles tensed in preparation to throw the first punch.
"Do you hunt the yetis of the high peaks, stripling? They are as fierce as the bear that fears no foe and as sly as the mink that creeps unseen. You will be as much prey as they." —Nitula, the Hunt Caller
The ogre's mind snapped. The bow was next. The archer followed quickly after.
The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood.
"No body can contain so much fury. It reminds me of another battle, long past." —Sarkhan Vol
"Those who have never ridden before the wind do not know the true joy of war."
"Make sure he's pointed in the right direction before you light him. And don't let the goblins anywhere near the torch." —Kerai Suddenblade, Mardu hordechief
"Strength batters down barriers. Discipline ignores them."
"Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests." —Mardu threat
Goblins, like snowflakes, are only dangerous in numbers.
"We are the flicker of the flame and its heat, the two sides of a single blade."
The broken Qal Sisma foothills make poor terrain for cavalry, but a perfect setting for ambushes.
"Your corruption will burn, serpent, until there is nothing left to defile." —Asmala, bloodfire mystic
"People are often humbled by the elements. But the elements, too, can be humbled." —Surrak, khan of the Temur
The adept underwent months of preparation to withstand pain, until he was finally ready to receive the efreet master's teachings.
Some efreet abandon their homes in the volcanic Fire Rim to embrace the Jeskai Way and discipline their innate flames.
Crude tactics can be effective nonetheless.
First the thunder, then the rain.
Lightning burns its own path.
Some ainok of the mountains are accepted among the Temur as trusted hunt-mates.
"The Sultai take our dead, so we shall take their living!" —Taklai, Mardu ragesinger
"The man whom I call father killed the orc who sired me, offering his world and his blade in return."
"The best servants are made from those who died without a scratch." —Sidisi, khan of the Sultai
In the Gudul delta, bloodfly bites are indistinguishable from spear wounds.
Since they guard armies of walking carrion, Sultai aven are never far from a meal.
The Sultai distinguish between pet and slave by the material of the chain.
"Let the world behold what becomes of those who defy us." —Taigam, Sidisi's Hand
Mastodons became extinct long ago, but foul forces of the Gurmag Swamp sometimes animate their decaying remains. The Sultai happily exploit such creatures but consider them inferior to their own necromantic creations.
"From your death, new life. From your loss, our profit." —Kirada, Qarsi overseer
Abzan ancestors died to protect their Houses, and they protect them still.
The voice of a rakshasa is soft, its breath sweet. But every word is the murmur of madness.
"To conquer is to eat." —Edicts of Ilagra
The blades of a Sultai assassin stab like the fangs of a dragon.
Flesh wounds are meaningless to those who discard their flesh so readily.
"The Abzan replaced my savagery with a noble heritage. I would give my life for my House."
Its hunting instincts have long since rotted away. Its hunger, however, remains.
It stares through the empty, pain-twisted faces of those it has drained.
"Anything a falcon can do, a bat can do in pitch darkness." —Urdnan the Wanderer
"We all want to know what's going on in someone else's head. I simply open it up and look."
The Sultai would rebuild the empire on the backs of the dead.
"We have a word for enemies too mutilated for military service: furniture." —Taigam, Sidisi's Hand
Long after death, the spirits of the Disowned continue to seek redemption among their Abzan kin.
"You have returned from fire, traitor. This time I will see you leave as ashes." —Zurgo, to Sarkhan Vol
"If weakness does not exist within the Temur then we shall force it upon them." —Sidisi, khan of the Sultai
Got a diving lesson —Sultai expression meaning "was fed to the crocodiles"
"Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome."
"Here you lie then, Ugin. The corpses of worlds will join you in the tomb." —Sorin Markov
As a test of calm and compassion, a Jeskai monk softly approaches a grazing sambar and offers it a lotus from his or her hand. If the creature eats, the student ascends to the next level of training.
Temur shamans speak of three destinies: the now, the echo of the past, and the unwritten. They find flickering paths among tangled possibilities.
"Be as water: untamed and unheld, yet inexorably flowing toward a greater goal." —Shensu, Riverwheel mystic
Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below.
"The Jeskai would have me bow in restraint. So I have found a people unafraid of true power."
The Temur have no patience for subtlety.
The envoy spoke, and Sidisi replied.
"There is nothing so free as the spring river born of winter's ice." —Nitula, the Hunt Caller
The Temur believe that scaldkin are born when eruptions melt the frozen whispers of sleeping ancestors.
Adepts of the Riverwheel Stronghold can run through rain and never get wet; masters use the raindrops as stepping stones.
"There are no obstacles, only different paths."
"The arrow strikes one bird down, but the flock remains." —Jeskai teaching
They range from Sage-Eye Stronghold to the farthest reaches of Tarkir.
"Do not think the sand or the sun will hold back the breath of winter."
"Have you spent a winter high in the mountains, where the ice walks and speaks to the wind? It is not a place for those who have not learned respect." —Ulnok, Temur shaman
Where an enemy once rode, not even a whisper remains.
Arel dreamed of winter's end. The next morning she followed a strange trail and found a seedling in the snow.
"You are beneath contempt. Your lineage will be forgotten."
In the silence of the ice, even dreams become still.
"Our own selves are the greatest obstacles to enlightenment." —Narset, khan of the Jeskai
"Even the greatest inferno begins as a spark. And anyone can snuff out a spark." —Chanyi, mistfire sage
"The stronger our enemies seem, the more vulnerable they are." —Sultai secret
"The Houses always hope for peace, but we always pack for war." —Gvar Barzeel, krumar commander
Lammasu are the enigmatic travelers of Tarkir, soaring high above all lands in all seasons. None know their true purpose, but they often arrive on the eve of great conflicts or turning points in history.
"Many scales make the skin of a dragon." —Abzan wisdom
"The dragons thought they were too strong to be tamed, too large to fall. And where are they now?" —Khibat the Revered
"They thought their fortress impregnable . . . until we marched up with ours, and blocked out the sun." —Golran, dragonscale captain
"I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here."
"Soldiers win battles, but supplies win wars." —Kadri, Abzan caravan master
These winged warriors meditate in flight, tracing mandalas in the clouds.
The Mardu charge reflects the dragon's speed—and its hunger.
The horde grows with each assault.
"There may be little honor in my tactics, but there is no honor in losing."
Mardu archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They never miss their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away.
Discipline is the first pillar of the Jeskai Way. Each member of the clan trains in a weapon, perfecting its use over a lifetime.
"What warrior worth the name fears to leave a trail? If my enemies seek me, let them follow the ashes in my wake."
Dragons are extinct on Tarkir, but Abzan magic still emulates their endurance.
"Truth is hard enough to see, let alone understand. We must remove all distractions to find clarity." —Zogye, wandering sage
Her palm flared like the eye of a waking dragon. Then all was calm.
"Stand where the whole battle can see you. Strike so they'll never forget." —Anafenza, khan of the Abzan
When Anafenza holds court under the First Tree, the gates of Mer-Ek are sealed. No safer place exists in all of Tarkir.
Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates.
The appearance of a kirin signifies the passing or arrival of an important figure. As word of sightings spread, all the khans took it to mean themselves. Only the shaman Chianul thought of Sarkhan Vol.
"Hold the line, for family and the fallen!"
The fastest way across the dunes is above.
"Wherever I walk, the ancestors walk too."
What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat.
Gold buys death. Death earns gold.
"I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
"Meat sustains the body. The spirit requires different sustenance." —Arel the Whisperer
Both his rank and his scars were earned in single combat against a cave bear.
"Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition."
The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic.
"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."
"No one petal claims beauty for the lotus."
Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with.
Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.
Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them.
There are many Jeskai styles: Riverwalk imitates flowing water, Dragonfist the ancient hellkites, and Flying Crane the wild aven of the high peaks.
The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone.
Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys.
"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy" —Surrak, khan of the Temur
"Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy" —Surrak, khan of the Temur
The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.
The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut.
Rarely at rest on the Amber Throne, Anafenza always leads the Abzan Houses to battle.
In the high caves of the Qal Sisma mountains, young hunters quest to hear the echoes of their fierce ancestors.
"Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride." —Golran, dragonscale captain
"We are the flicker of the flame and its heat, the two sides of a single blade."
"We all want to know what's going on in someone else's head. I simply open it up and look."
"Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome."
"Do not think the sand or the sun will hold back the breath of winter."
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains."
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be." —Agosto, Azorius imperator
Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy.
"Do you smell something burning?"
"Forgive me, Master Kami, but in the interest of my people I must halt your advance."
Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
"Having conviction is more important than being righteous." —Aurelia
The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
Small enough to penetrate the narrowest crack in a castle wall and numerous enough to hack apart a griffin.
Sudden vengeance, echoing fury.
"You think no one is watching, you think you're smart enough to escape, and most foolish of all, you think no one cares." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again.
His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.
Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission.
They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly.
Many Tin Street shops display a sign on the door: "No cloaks allowed."
"Do not concern yourself with my origin, my race, or my ancestry. Seek my record in the pits, and then make your wager."
"Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong." —Zurgo, khan of the Mardu
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball." —Stumphobbler Thuj, orcish captain
"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail." —Cymede, queen of Akros
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.
With one motion, a pest is removed and a scourge inflicted.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom." —Spear-Tribe teaching
Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
"The beauty of it is they never see it coming. Ever." —Razzix, sparkmage
The climax of a warlord's career is always death.
The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.
Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip.
"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions." —Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"Those who have never ridden before the wind do not know the true joy of war."
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Don't let him lead the soldiers, but by all means let him lead the way.
Every once in a while, when they aren't getting incinerated in lava, crushed under rock slides, or devoured by dragons, goblins experience moments of unmitigated glory in battle.
The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
Formerly oppressed by the polis of Meletis, leonin occasionally "mistake" their old enemies for game.
"Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!"
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
Legend speaks of the lost coastal polis of Olantin, whose inhabitants' hubris enraged the sun god Heliod.
All must fall, and those who stand highest fall hardest.
The calm comes after the storm.
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.
Elvish dawnhands test a relic's worthiness before collecting it for the safehold. If it can't stand up to a stiff breeze, it's left behind.
The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards.
"Keep with you only this much: your mount, your blade, and your wits. The rest you can find, build, or take." —Horse clans' wisdom
A bloody dawn broke over a scabbed and tortured world.
Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal.
A stone hurled at an enemy is deadlier in liquid form.
"You thought only the gods could stop you?"
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.
"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."
Its footfalls cause violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms.
"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind." —Ramal, sage of Westgate
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you." —Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, . . . and they were barely a tenth of our number!" —General Avitora
"Guilty."
"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse." —Lord Windgrace
"All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace." —Ajani Goldmane
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age.
The modular nature of the automaton's design makes assembly perfectly intuitive.
"Though tempered differently, all wills can be broken." —Inquisitor Kyrik
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
A symbol of ferocity in oppressive times.
A symbol of conviction in uncertain times.
A symbol of sagacity in bewildering times.
A symbol of passion in indifferent times.
A symbol of ambition in ruthless times.
We are made stronger by those we fight for. Designed by Richard Garriott
A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness.
Arrive for worship. Leave for war.
Professional pilferers prefer proper preparation.
"An angel's skull is left too plain by death. I made a few aesthetic modifications." —Dommique, blood artist
"To be in the presence of a revoker is to be truly alone." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
The spirit dragon Ugin arranged the hedrons of Zendikar to direct leylines of energy. To disrupt one is to unleash devastation and chaos.
Once a year, the skies over Paliano fill with the flying machines of those who hope to be taken on as pupils by the artificer Muzzio.
"And if I'm lying," he began . . .
Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut.
"Comin' through!" Designed by James Ernest
Pray you never hear it chime.
The beating of a gargoyle's wings on the air is like the cracking of stones. Intruders who rouse a gargoyle are certain to hear the cracking of bones.
The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened. —The Theriad
Designed by Penny Arcade
"This is the source, the line unbroken since the calamity that brought such monsters to our shores." —Hastric, Thunian scout
Designed by Brian Fargo
Mulch is the fabric of life in the forest. Plants live in it, they die in it, and then they become part of it, feeding countless generations to come.
Fortified by the wilds.
"We attacked with arrows dipped in poison. The slivers that did not die began to change." —Hastric, Thunian scout
It sees a rotting carcass as a good wine which has been aged properly.
The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive.
"We patrol the steppes to keep enemies from the forest verge."
Some shamanic sects advocate the different seasons, each working to preserve nature's cycles.
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
The magic of the elves leaves its mark on the forest. The magic of the forest leaves its mark on the animals who live there. The animals of the forest leave their mark on all who trespass.
"They're easy enough to find. Question is, are you sure you want to find one?" —Juruk, Kalonian tracker
What looked like a retreat was actually a replenishing.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
"You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible.
The Conclave acts with a single will, expressed by countless warriors.
It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd.
"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain." —Garruk Wildspeaker
At the instant of death, the mystery of life.
It's easier to relocate a village that lies in their path than to turn the bugs aside.
First you lose your enemy's trail. Then you lose all sense of direction. Then you hear the growls . . .
He who hesitates is lunch.
Designed by George Fan
Nature is itself wild—in all its forms.
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest." —Nissa Revane
The knights of Troinir Keep took the rhino as their emblem due to its intense focus when charging down a perceived threat—a trait they discovered on a hunting excursion.
Ranger wisdom dictates that when fleeing from a moss-beast, you must stay calm, find your bearings, and run south.
There will always be those who presume to improve nature, or dare to befoul it. And nature will always have a response.
Mercy is for those who keep their distance.
Devils redecorate every room with fire.
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
It requires immense pressure to imbue an item with magic. If the spell is broken . . .
Trespassers are welcome to try.
To a goblin, value is based on the four S's: shiny, stabby, smelly, and super smelly.
There are certain stones even dwarves know to leave in the earth.
An oath of fealty sworn with a handshake.
To wield lightning is to tame chaos.
A strict upgrade over the cinder hatchet.
The Onakke were masters of dark arts and artifice. Their creations continue to spread foul magic, paving the way for their return.
He just likes to break legs. Collecting the debt is a bonus.
"I've never been above throwing the first punch."
"There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
Astride the bucking creature, Gribble hurtled down the mountainside while his Grotag brethren cheered. It was at that moment that the legend of the Skrill Tamer was born.
Designed by Stone Librande
What he lacks in stature, he makes up for with enthusiasm.
After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.
A bit of pain never hurts.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it." —Sarkhan Vol
"Why do guards always look surprised when we bash them?" asked Ruric. "I think they expect a bribe," said Thar.
"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?" —Chandra Nalaar
"With rage as your forge, your hammer can smite anything."
"Come, little one. Unfurl your wings, fill your lungs, and release your first fiery breath."
Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids.
"Encase yourself in the most elaborate armor, and cower behind the heaviest shield. I would hate for you to feel helpless." —Korig the Ruiner
"The slivers became adept at provoking a fear response in other species." —Hastric, Thunian scout
Designed by Markus Persson
"You don't want to know what happens after I put on the goggles."
Shades are drawn to places of power, often rooting themselves in a single area to feed.
Designed by Rob Pardo
Some bog witches practice the strange art of batrachomancy, reading portents in the number, size, and color of warts on a toad's hide.
Designed by the Magic community
"I'm raising an army. Any volunteers?"
"If it were merely lethal, that would be sufficient. The art, however, is in maximizing the suffering it causes." —Liliana Vess
Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
"My favorite guilty pleasure? Are there innocent ones?"
Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom?
Designed by Brad Muir
Nightfire turns the greatest weakness of the undead into formidable strength.
The experiments decided to perform some research of their own.
Zombies and necromancers agree: easy access to brains is preferred.
Contrary to popular belief, it's kept aloft by necrogen gas, not the screaming agony of a thousand murdered souls.
"It saddens me to lose a source of inspiration. This one seemed especially promising." —Ashiok
"Seeing one slowly devour one of my party begged the question—do they know what cruelty is?" —Hastric, Thunian scout
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
A grave is not always for burial.
"Pain is temporary. So is life." —Liliana Vess
The death of a scout can be as informative as a safe return.
"As our numbers dwindle, the ranks of the dead grow ever stronger." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Face of innocence. Hand of death. Designed by Edmund McMillen
"Still alive? No matter. I'll leave you as a warning to others who would oppose me." —Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
A forest fire can rejuvenate the land, but the tar's vile consumption leaves the land forever ruined.
When carrion feeds on carrion, dark days approach.
It would be ill-mannered to decline his invitation. It would be ill-advised to accept it.
Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.
Many have heard the slither of dragging armor and the soft squelch of its voice. But only its victims ever meet its icy gaze.
Sailors have come to regard them as bad luck, for they falsely bring hope of land.
"I have seen countless petty warmongers gaze on it for a time before turning away." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
"I've tried so many variations on how to get rid of annoying things that it's hard to decide which one I like best." —Ashurel, voidmage
"Ribbit."
"Pyrotechnic activity of any sort is strictly prohibited. It is irrelevant that today is a holiday."
There are many words and phrases that can cause an experienced wizard to tremble in fear. Chief among them is "oops."
"The flies were bothering me." —Jalira, master polymorphist
"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
The people of the Sevick Isles have a unique understanding of the term "ominous clouds."
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
"Your mind was a curious mix of madness and genius. I just took away the genius." —Jace Beleren
To know the battlefield is to anticipate the enemy. To know the enemy is to anticipate victory.
The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded.
Designed by David Sirlin
"It's a truly disconcerting sight to see their shadows cast upon the deck." —Captain Triff
"You can become anything if I just put my mind to it."
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."
Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins.
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach." —Terhold, archmage of Drunau
"In a daze, I woke and looked upon the battlefield, where I could swear my dreams were laying waste to the enemy." —Letter from a soldier
"Thirsty?" —Drunvalus, hydromancer
"The law has its place—as a footnote in my spellbook." —Siyani, fugitive mage
It readily attacks much larger prey, knowing retaliation is impossible.
Too often, some self-described genius comes up with a "labor-saving device" that ends up creating far more work.
"The sea blesses the tiny with the power to fell the mighty." —Talrand, sky summoner
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free." —Dierk, geistmage
"The hive shimmered, and its walls seemed a living mirror." —Hastric, Thunian scout
Timing is everything.
An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork.
Designed by Mike Neumann
"There are those who do not believe in the existence of the amphin. This seems somehow to be of their own design." —Gor Muldrak, Cryptohistories
"Don't worry, there's plenty for everyone." —Vickon, Eleventh Company battlemage
"All tinkerers have their heads in the clouds. I don't intend to stop there."
He draws strength from a vast source few mortals can fathom. Designed by Isaiah Cartwright
"If you cannot turn your enemy's strength to weakness, then make that strength your own." —Gresha, warrior sage
If they succeed in their holy work, their order will vanish into welcome obscurity, for there will be no more souls to redeem.
The sacred feathers of the pegasus are said to have healing powers.
Designed by Justin Gary
"Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic."
"You will be reimbursed for your donation." "The reimbursement is spiritual." —Temple signs
"If I fail to offer myself, we will surely be overrun. My fate would be the same."
You need only raise your spear to receive this blessing.
Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again.
Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you.
Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex.
"The vaulted ceiling of our faith rests upon such pillars." —Darugand, banisher priest
After the Battle of Pharagax Bridge, the Champion spent many months among the leonin of Oreskos. She found that they were quick to take offense, not because they were thin-skinned, but because they were always eager for a fight. —The Theriad
"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored." —Olgard of the Skiltfolk
Find your center, and you will find your way.
The dead serve as their own tombstones.
Stand your post for duty. Stand your ground for honor.
"If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy."
An overwhelming sense of calm accompanies the gryffs that wheel above the roofs of Gavony.
The blessings of Heliod are apparent for all to see.
"The battle is won. There's work to be done. / The Blessed Sleep must wait. / A fiend is about. It stalks the devout. / I'll save them from my fate." —"The Good Geist's Vow"
"There's never a good time for a disaster or an attack. That's why we're here." —Oren, militia captain
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
"Even your shadow is too foul to tolerate."
"Thieves and squid squirm the same way when you capture them."
Slivers are often seen toying with enemies they capture, not out of cruelty, but to fully learn their physical capabilities.
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
"Boom! Boom! Boots the size of oxcarts, then an axe like a falling sun. Elves scattered. Trees scattered. Even the hills ran for the hills!" —Clachan Tales
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers." —Jazal Goldmane
"Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting."
Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds.
"What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth."
Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible.
The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered.
Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach.
The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded.
An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork.
Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again.
For all its traps and defenses, Yavimaya has its havens, too.
The academy worked with time—until time ran out.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominaria itself a casualty of war.
Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead. —Vec tomb inscription
The Zhalfirin war triangle represents a trinity of might, faith, and guile.
Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the su-chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students.
A sphere pushes equally in all directions.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
Not every cage is made of bars.
"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more." —Oracle en-Vec
Gerrard: "But it doesn't do anything!" Hanna: "No—it does nothing."
Held in the lion's eye —Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis"
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
The sculptor, weary of his work, created art that would finish itself.
After a chimeric idol attacked them, the Keldons smashed all unfamiliar statues.
Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations.
"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."
The ground rose and formed into thousands of tiny warriors. This fight was far from over.
Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power." —Marchesa, the Black Rose
Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.
"My rule persists beyond death itself."
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
"Don't laugh. It works."
It teaches you to play dead.
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind." —Modruni, maro-sorcerer
Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life.
The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
The Mirari's magic transformed the Krosan Forest—and its inhabitants.
These monkeys mean business.
He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.
Mirri did not have time to think, only to react.
Seton dreams of life renewed.
Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
Broad as a baobab—and about as smart.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
"I hate insects of every sort. The only mercy is that they are generally small." —Mwani, Mtenda goatherd
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more." —Scroll of Beginnings
The forest rose to the battle, not to save the people, but to save itself.
"We could no more abandon the forest than the stars could abandon the night sky."
He provides a safe path to nowhere.
Nature's strength outlives the strong.
"Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce."
Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose.
They say the forest has eyes. They never mention its claws.
Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.
It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite-size.
"The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within." —Lyna, soltari emissary
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
It's the only kind of shower goblins will tolerate.
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die." —Braids, dementia summoner
"I order you to volunteer."
In the smoldering ashes of Shiv, a few dragons strive to rebuild their native land. The rest seek any opportunity to restore the broken pride of their race.
"Wood is wasted in the dirt." —Orcish proverb
Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.
The pulsing heat of the midday Sun burns in the Lion's eye. —Stone inscription, source unknown
The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
Be it ever so crumbled, there's no place like home.
"Take the sharp metal stick and make a lotta holes." —Jula, goblin raider
There's always room for one more.
At the first sign of enemy scouts, Jula grinned and strapped on his diplomacy helmet.
Giant-sized body. Goblin-sized brain.
Lead, follow, or run around like crazy.
With a commando around, somebody's gonna get hurt.
"Crovax seems filled only with shadows," thought Orim. "Where does his strength come from?"
When you've got nothing, you might as well trade it for something else.
Volrath leaves no stone untrained.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
Like a sleeping dragon, Shiv stirs and groans at times.
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.
She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"Every act of destruction has a repercussion." —Karn, silver golem
He craves only one commodity.
"My eyes are my strongest feature."
"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets." —Shauku, Endbringer
In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.
"This one has not screamed enough to show effective implantation. Kill it." —Volrath
The first Yawgmoth priest to harness their power was rewarded with several unique mutilations.
"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare." —Crovax
"You will learn to earn death." —Volrath
"The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough." —Phyrexian progress notes
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
One chill blast—the exhalation of the grave.
"Ash is our air, darkness our flesh." —Phyrexian Scriptures
Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.
The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.
"The young can be quite dangerous. Trust me, I should know." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Better to starve to death than be bored to death." —Liliana Vess
In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior.
Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky.
"The dauthi believe they dignify murder by paying for it." —Lyna, soltari emissary
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers." —Afari, Tales
Eating is all it knows.
"Each syllable chills your veins. Each word rattles your mind." —Cabal Patriarch
"As with any malevolent being, the trick is knowing how long you can afford to keep it in your service." —Liliana Vess
"I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge." —Urborg witch
Closing time comes earlier to some than to others.
The calm comes after the storm.
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.
They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness.
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
"I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination."
Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.
A good memory is no match for a good scribe.
"I have a hunch we'll be seeing that one again soon." —Ambassador Laquatus
The question strained his sanity. The answer snapped it in half.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"These sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves." —Zur the Enchanter
Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
"I have no need of a map. The continent itself guides my way."
"There's nothing like the high seas to clear your head or escape pursuers."
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
Motivation was high in the academy once students realized flunking their exams could kill them.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
From nothing came teeth.
"The specimen seems to be broken."
The pyromancer summoned up her mightiest onslaught of fire and rage. Jace feigned interest.
"Do as I think, not as I do." —Jace Beleren
As elusive as the footprint of a djinn —Suq'Ata expression
Some tides need no moon.
"War is the crucible of leadership." —Rashida Scalebane
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence." —Oracle en-Vec
The light of reason follows them even into battle.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
His outer calm belies his inner fury.
It marks the border between here and hereafter.
"Dauthi blood is soltari wine." —Soltari Tales of Life
Alone at the portal, Ertai began his meditation. He realized immediately that he was not alone.
"Prophecy is whatever one makes of it, but destiny cannot be changed." —Sidar Jabari
Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." —Seal inscription
Some find inspiration in their swords. Others find it in their leaders.
Nomad youths aspire to one of two roles in the tribe: priest or warrior. Their secret dream is to become both.
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again."
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished.
"Whoever survives the first blow lives to land the second."
Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!"
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire." —"Hymn of Angelfire"
The Cho-Arrim fought Mercadia's decadence with more than just swords.
When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice.
"Nothing can stop the power of life—not even death." —Onean cleric
"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."
"I'm up here. You're down there. Now who's the lower life form?"
"The hum of the universe is never off-key." —Mystic elder
War destroys more than just the land. War destroys hope.
The clerics saw her as a divine gift. She saw them only as allies in her war against Phage.
Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be?
Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory.
The best defense is a good offense.
The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.
The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.
Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
Lanterns carved from the mystic stones of the Reito Mines were said to light the way of lost souls.
"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle." —Kessla, Sylvok shaman
"It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness." —Volrath
"Heat of battle" is usually a metaphor.
"Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery."
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"Fear not. Your life will not go unlived."
Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . .
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
Some nature mages unknowingly took advantage of the temporal energies still swirling on Dominaria. What they mistook for healing magic was in fact the manipulation of time.
In the treetops, unseen by many, lurks chittering, skittering death.
"They don't move much, but then again, if you get caught in its web, it has all the time in the world to get to you." —Saidah, Joraga hunter
The wurms become so big, a single scale can be used as a roof for a human dwelling.
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"If they board us we're finished," warned Orim. Crovax nodded. "And if they don't . . . what then?"
There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
"Never start a fight you can't finish." —Padril, council guardian
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all." —Sildark, artificer of Omu
"We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally." —Thrass, elder druid
"Werewolves are an unholy mix of a predator's instinct and a human's hatred." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
"Only when we journey into the unknown can we find the impossible." —Cyrul the Wanderer
Nature's strength outlives the strong.
A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.
Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note.
"Is it wrong to go straight for what you want? Sneaking is for cats and goblins." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed." —The War Diaries
"How can we outrun the sky?" —Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone." —The War Diaries
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
Devils redecorate every room with fire.
The cinders believe their flame was stolen by one they call the Extinguisher. All who now wield fire draw their desperate wrath.
The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.
"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball." —Stumphobbler Thuj, orcish captain
The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.
Don't let its appearance frighten you. Let its claws and teeth do that.
Their language may be a cacophonous agglomeration of chittering snorts and mad barking, but the message they send is all too clear.
Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned.
"Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight." —Karn
A flame-kin is always formidable, but feeding its fire with a sorcerous gift grants it the power to devastate armies.
"The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours." —Onean sergeant
"Now everyone knows what you are."
Fervid shamans willingly submit to shockers in hopes of glimpsing the fortunes of the future.
"Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend.
"Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave.
Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering.
In Urborg, the instigators of each new rebellion are soaked in the blood of the last.
Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate.
His family was a small price to pay for the dark gifts that called to him.
"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies." —Savra
"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage." —Hildin, priest of Avacyn
"Behold! The image of the enemy and all that she has. Trust your envy, and take it."
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing." —Liliana Vess
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.
Urza thought it a crusade. Xantcha knew it was a robbery.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible." —Gorghul, augur of skulls
"Take my hand and dance to the music of the winds."
"Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius." —Varil, Neurok partisan
"Superior force meets woefully inadequate object. What paradox were you expecting?" —Azguri, archmage of Evos Isle
The Simic created the cells to preserve their experiments. The Azorius put the cells to use on the guilty.
"Any good prospector must sift the gold from the sand."
The Neurok buried entangling cables just under the Quicksilver Sea. One seastrider harvest can provide an army's worth of armor and shields.
The scrollkeepers never stepped an inch away from the doors of the Great Library, not even when the ogres and their oni masters swept through Minamo.
The bolt struck with a flash, and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed.
"It's simple, really. If they can't find us, they can't kill us."
Long thought to be extinct, flocks of gryffs reappeared with Avacyn's return.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Creation is a paradox. It hatches from its opposite." —Olka, Mistmeadow witch
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"The wind smells of misfortune. Check your knots." —Anitan, Ondu cleric
Its pulsating cry shatters bonds of iron, granite, and servitude.
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must." —Kaalia of the Vast
"As my father taught, 'Training will raise your shield to the blow, but courage fills the gaps the shield leaves open.'"
After Gideon cleansed the Ninth District, none of the ganglords challenged the Boros.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
"Just a moment of perfect grace and sanctity is enough." —Kal Lior, leonin elder
"Their spirits walk the winds and fill my soul."
"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den." —Britta, midwife of Gatstaf
"End this. What I seek is far greater." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"You have not died until I consent."
"Any hotheaded cub can raise a sword in anger."
"May starving fleas birth a thousand generations on your stubborn hide, cow!" —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."
Sacred rites repurposed to fight an ancient threat.
In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
The Orzhov started using hawks as messengers in order to bypass the many toll roads and bridges that dot Ravnica. Soon the service became one of their most profitable businesses.
"Ajani goes where he is needed most and in his name we keep his lands safe."
Spy for today. Plan for tomorrow.
Each volume contains wonders.
Paliano's creations provide ample opportunities to plot the downfall of a neighbor.
Why wait for answers?
"The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City."
"Watch your head . . . and your back."
Those who can't conspire, create.
If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below.
"All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power." —Marchesa, the Black Rose
"My rule persists beyond death itself."
Selvala's arrival never goes unnoticed.
"And Muzzio says my arguments have no teeth." —Selvala, ranger of the Lowlands
"Everything comes with a price. Especially revolution." —Grenzo, dungeon warden
"Their guards are soft, ready to welcome a sharp dagger."
When every right is voted away, only rage remains.
"Your defiance is noted."
"Secrets, like coins, are easy to steal."
"The Black Rose doesn't tolerate weeds."
"We remember. We rise."
When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice.
On Fiora, no matter is settled until King Brago offers an opinion.
"Unusual. Security also worth stealing." —Dack Fayden
"In the market for an alternative, friend?"
"The beneficent council deems you worthy of favor. They hope this doesn't provoke envy from your peers."
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere." —Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes." —Kenzo the Hardhearted
"It hurts more if you think about it." —Hooks, Cabal torturer
"We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening."
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"For centuries my creation kept this world in balance. Now only her shadow remains." —Sorin Markov
Not every church is a place of faith.
"There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires." —Nulakam the Archivist
"I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me." —Sorin Markov
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder." —Knight-Captain Wyhorn
"The nim raid our homes without warning. We must defend our homes without hesitation."
In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."
Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal.
Five rivers encircle Theros, flowing with waters more ancient than the world itself.
Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal.
Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither.
In Akros, the penalty for running from battle is one night's stay in the Deserter's Quarters.
The greatest heroes are the first to stand, the first to take up arms, and the first to meet the enemy.
From a distance the weapons look pristine, but in fact they are tarnished and dented, each as unique as the champion who carried it to battle.
Coins of the Underworld are shaped from clay funerary masks.
"Xenagos has fallen, and the world grows dark without him. What can ever fill that darkness but our rage?" —Guruthes, disciple of Xenagos
At the Akroan gates, hoplites revived the tactics of Kytheon Iora's infamous irregulars.
"Some of my kin dance for themselves, without greater purpose. Nylea gives me purpose, and with it strength."
"Listen to my song, and you need never forge a golden mask to return to me."
"You think your weaving as beautiful as mine? Let me show you the true meaning of the craft."
Hunger makes a leucrocota dangerous. A full belly makes it angry and dangerous.
The renowned warchiefs of Pheres Band fight with the might of minotaurs and the sagacity of sphinxes.
"Flesh and bone or star and shadow. It makes no difference to my club."
"I do not know if the forest was different after they passed. But I know I was." —Ianthe, Setessan hunter
Nature protects its own.
Commerce is always the basis for peace.
The horizon is tantalizing in both its uncertainty and its potential.
The anger of the gods multiplied in Nyx, and the land awoke in dark echoes of their rage.
Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.
The temptation to take the ox's golden hide is as irresistible as it is fatal.
"It is not yours to hunt, mortal. Be content with its beauty alone." —Nylea, god of the hunt
Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds.
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.
"I refuse to let the folly of mortals endanger the home I made for them."
"The gods think of us as insects. Perhaps there is wisdom in that." —Perisophia the philosopher
Setessan warriors of Bassara Tower are known for their guerrilla tactics and skill with the bow. Interlopers into the Nessian Wood do not get far.
"The most brilliant stars are not born of Nyx." —Rhexenor, Akroan flamespeaker
Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon.
The runes seem to come alive as it moves, rippling like slow flames across its scales.
"Xenagos has become what he once despised: a tyrant and an oppressor."
"Embrace every moment, for it could be your last." —Xenagos, god of revels
Fire to destroy. Fire to create.
The Champion and her companions marched through the night, but the battle was over before they arrived. In the middle of the carnage sat a solitary minotaur, lost in what seemed to the Champion to be thought. —The Theriad
The ancient dragon Thraxes sleeps in Purphoros's sacred peak. When he stirs in dreams, so does the mountain.
"I fight for Keranos and for mortals. I see no contradiction."
"Information is a powerful weapon." —Cymede, queen of Akros
The cyclops had learned to never eat a shepherd. Instead he gently flung the "pit" aside to grow a new flock.
Purphoros shaped the oreads out of stray coals from his forge.
Drink deep, and find your vengeance fulfilled.
A minotaur does not distinguish between human, satyr, and triton. They are all meat.
Xenagos reveled while Theros burned.
Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.
"The anger that festers inside this one is contagious." —Anthousa of Setessa
Deathbellow Canyon is home to minotaurs and many other creatures that share a love for the taste of human flesh.
To hold the heavens from the earth is no curse, but a titanic responsibility.
The enemies' shields are the first to shatter, and their battle line is never far behind.
Elspeth feared that her trespass into Nyx would not go unanswered.
"Not all nightmares can be escaped by waking." —Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
Some predators can sense fear in their prey, but the lamia is drawn to madness.
Leeches are sacred to followers of Pharika for drawing poison from a wound, but feared by everyone else for drawing blood from the flesh.
"Only a fool takes Phenax at his word. What do you expect from a god born of lies and betrayal?" —Verenes, priest of Iroas
The hulk rose from the sea and loomed over the Champion. Pinned beneath the twisting, rotted planks of wood was the body of Kaliaros, the helmsman of her former crew, and beside him the captain, Photine. —The Theriad
A mask forged to avenge a death forgotten.
The flesh is dead and the life forgotten, but old habits persist.
The serpents' dens built into statues of Pharika serve not only to consecrate her temples, but as a hidden line of defense.
A balm or a poison depending on how it is administered, and to whom.
"To think some believe it peaceful to die in one's sleep." —Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
Any pleasure, when taken to excess, becomes torment. It's a formula that demons have perfected.
Occasionally the living wander to the Rivers, but the wardens of Athreos ensure that only the dead pass.
Drink deep, and death will recoil from you.
It's common practice among minotaurs to collect the heads of their victims as trophies. Sometimes the trophies prove more than ornamental.
"We gave the gods the power to war against us. It is time we took that power back."
Phenax offers the hope of life, while Pharika grants the solace of death. Between them stands Erebos, who promises nothing but eternity.
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.
"I take no pleasure in your suffering, but it is necessary. Once you accept your fate you'll find eternity more tolerable."
In desperation the soldier prayed to Phenax, begging for the power to cheat the gorgon's gaze.
"My adopted children are loved no less." —Pharika, god of affliction
Erebos's minions hunt the Returned and warn those who consider the same folly.
Stand against the crash of the river's rapids and you will know the power of the naiads.
Once she sang sailors to their doom. Now she leads them to glory.
"Who will miss you, drywalker? A wife? A child? Perhaps they will blame the sea for your fate, and teach future generations to stay far away from it."
The tritons broke the surface, and the Nyxborn broke ranks.
The sailor had never seen a god before. Now she had gazed upon Thassa. Shortly she would see Athreos, and then she would meet Erebos.
When mortals claim there are places Thassa cannot reach, the sea god laughs.
Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them.
An offering to the sea brings an insight from the stars.
"I want one." —Kiora
Ideas, not stones, form the true foundation of Meletis.
"Mortal strength, like mortal hope, is so easily crushed." —Thassa, god of the sea
"You wish to learn of Nyx? Very well." —Phenax, god of deception
"I will match Thassa drop for drop and show a god what true power is." —Kiora
Drink deep, and your thoughts will flow freely.
"Knowledge is cruel. It will break your heart and test your allegiances. Are you certain you want this curse?"
Honesty is the first casualty of war.
Choices are rarely as simple as they seem.
The physical pain was nothing compared to the agony in his mind.
"That is not the voice of the wind singing on the stones." —Callaphe the mariner
"Death is tyranny. Like all tyranny, it must be opposed."
They are trained from hatching to deliver aid where it is needed most.
Ephara taught some mortals to feel every vein in marble as though it flows with their own blood.
Pray her spear reaches you first. Her griffin is less kind.
"A tiny flame is enough to dispel the night." —Elspeth
After the Battle of Pharagax Bridge, the Champion spent many months among the leonin of Oreskos. She found that they were quick to take offense, not because they were thin-skinned, but because they were always eager for a fight. —The Theriad
The gods are fascinated by innocence, perhaps because it's a quality they themselves lack.
"The stars belong in the night sky. This is our world, and we are our own masters."
Go forth with honor, return with glory.
Not all shields are forged of iron or bronze.
Drink deep, and be restored.
It is the soul of a philosopher who died of starvation contemplating the universe.
"Even from miles away, I could see our eagles circling. That's when I gave the command to pick up the pace. I knew we were needed at home." —Kanlos, Akroan captain
"In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?" —Polyxene the Doubter
"It is done." —Elspeth
"Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours."
Even when many of the soldiers who guarded Akros were called away, its safety was never in doubt.
Athreos cares little for the other gods' conflict with mortals. He is concerned only with safe passage for the dead.
Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier.
The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls.
Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon.
Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality.
Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake.
"Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours."
www.MagicTheGathering.com
Held in the lion's eye -Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis"
"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.
"Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head." —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
"You are correct. This is going to hurt." —Vraska
If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.
"Romanticize it, glamorize it, call it what you will. To me, it will always be carnal, bloody murder." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . .
"I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?" —Vraska
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
"The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'" —Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"You can't protect them all, Jace." —Vraska
"Tonight, madam, it's your money and your life."
When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back.
"Bury your dead deep. The boars are hungriest while the corpse is still warm." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
Those without breath can't complain.
The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey.
The Izzet's plans to exploit the undercity ran into a few stubborn obstacles.
Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late.
"Merciless to the point of psychosis. Let's give him a job." —Zelinas, Orzhov recruiter
"Don't worry. I know the drill."
"The Golgari would say that life comes from death and death comes from life. But sometimes, death comes from the dead." —Vraska
It grows to hate you.
"Sheath your swords! Cudgels only. I see a new pair of waterproof trek boots slithering away." —Nablus, North Hada trapper
Every inch of Ravnica is home to something.
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
"You can't think your way out of this, Jace. Thought implies life, and life requires a pulse—music to a hunter's ears." —Vraska
The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away.
"Is the inevitable any less miraculous?" —Veldka, wandering sage
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."
"I don't need to have the perfect plan. My foe just has to have an imperfect one." —Jace Beleren
"Do as I think, not as I do." —Jace Beleren
"Heel."
"Beware the seagrafs just off the shore. These waters are filled with hungry geists looking for an easy meal." —Captain Eberhart
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
For the Azorius, the law can be a physical shield against chaos and anarchy.
"To sculpt a mind is to see every memory and thought as an individual piece that can be rearranged—or removed." —Jace Beleren
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
"Everyone in this city is choosing sides. I choose inside."
"As you inject the viscus vitae into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears." —Stitcher Geralf
"Is the maze itself a phantom? Or is one as real as the other? Perhaps I am as mad as the dragon." —Jace Beleren, journal
"I am who I pretend to be."
Its hunger and ire are no less for being wrought of lies and mist.
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
"The universe is my instrument, and the song I play upon it is one you are forbidden to hear."
The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name.
"The secret entrance should be near."
"It's as strong as you believe it is, and it's very convincing." —Jace Beleren
What happens when it is the dream that wakes and the sleeper that fades into memory?
Information travels quickly through Ravnica's network of messengers and thought agents.
"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all." —Pol Jamaar, illusionist
In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.
On the third night, the villagers destroyed their clocks. The sounds of whirring gears and chiming metal held only dread for them.
"It's the last thing we can call our own." -Minhu, Mirran resistance
"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall." -Gamelen, Citanul elder
"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed." -The Seer's Parables
"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them." -Aurelia
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest." -Nissa Revane
Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
"The music is in the drum. I simply coax it out to be heard."
A siren once tried to steal it out of jealousy but was caught by the song of its strings.
Just because a temple has no guards doesn't mean it's undefended.
"You slew the gorgon? Show me." —King Igalus, last words
The strength of the people comes from the land. And the bounty of the land comes from Karametra.
"She may call herself Kiora but I believe she is Thassa, the embodiment of the sea and empress of the depths."
Thaumaturges of Theros have learned to weave their magic into the world around them, but it can be pulled apart strand by strand.
The girl who would become the Champion of the Sun hacked furiously at the practice dummy. At last she stopped, breathing heavily, and looked up at her instructor. "So much anger," said the centaur. "I will teach you the ways of war, child. But first you must make peace with yourself." —The Theriad
Some fruits are best left ungathered.
"Who says you cannot touch the stars?"
"Setessa is not the city of my birth, but it is the place I fight for, and the place I'm willing to die for. Does that not make it my home?"
The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one.
Trompers are the most feared warriors of the Pheres Band. Anger is their lifeblood. It sustains them and gives them purpose.
"Who can deny the call to battle when it sings in our blood?"
The Fates tried to cut her string but found the thread had turned to iron.
"The false god Xenagos treats the whole world as his rollick site. If his whims are left unchecked, Theros will be reduced to rubble and ashes." —Elspeth
The harvest god's cornucopia contains the fruits of the fields, the forest, and beyond.
To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure.
"You cannot achieve greatness if its seed has not already been planted in your heart."
Cloaks woven from its webs are durable and waterproof but said to bring on nightmares.
Hunt without Nylea's leave and you may find yourself the next quarry.
"If the hierarchies of nature were determined by ferocity alone, the badger would be lord of the beasts." —Anthousa of Setessa
"Even alone I outnumber you."
Despite its fearsome stature, it is as elusive as a shadow, circling round to stalk those who presume to hunt it.
A prayer answered by Keranos is clear for all to witness.
Purphoros's blessing: sometimes a boon, sometimes a bane. Always ablaze.
When Purphoros cleans the ashes from his forge, entire cities vanish.
His heart, the coal; his eye, the spark; his hand, the whirling flame.
Plidius wagered that Arissa couldn't kill a chimera with her javelins alone. She proved him wrong in a way everyone could see for days to come.
"The gods of Theros are born of the expectations and beliefs of mortals. If I have found godhood, what does that say about their true desires?" —Xenagos, god of revels
Mount Sulano erupted not in magma but in anger.
"We are the motes of rain that join to make the thundercloud. The power of the storm god surges through us!"
Minotaurs go into battle hungry. The first sight of their enemies' blood sends them into a flesh-eating rage.
"I will soar higher than the walls of Akros! Higher than the clouds! Higher than Heliod himself!"
The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help.
Purphoros is god of creation and destruction, which makes him the most creatively destructive god in the pantheon.
It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him.
In Meletis, certain oracles are trained to be divine lightning rods, receiving countless visions in an instant.
The Champion armed herself to face the cyclops, heedless of her companions' despair. "How will you defeat it with only one spear?" asked young Althemone. The Champion raised her weapon. "It has but one eye." —The Theriad
The breakthroughs granted by Keranos, god of epiphany, can be surprisingly literal.
"Did Purphoros bless Maikal because of his rage? Or did Maikal's rage blossom after he'd been blessed? Only the gods know." —Eocles, oracle of Purphoros
"The time to serve is now."
Proud Alkmenos, who would not bow to Erebos in death, is now bowed by his own hubris for all eternity.
Life is most precious to those who have already lost it.
Every twitching nerve and pulsing vein carries a message, discernible with the right tools.
A body Returned, a soul still lost.
A servant of Pharika must know countless balms that heal and soothe—and countless more that do the opposite.
A favorite of Erebos, for it has sent many to the Underworld.
Merchants of the Underworld trade in coins of clay. Gold serves another purpose.
It is a terrible thing when the path of the Returned leads them back to the Underworld.
"More children taken. This is an evil we will track without mercy." —Anthousa of Setessa
Burial rites among the Felhide minotaurs involve devouring those who fell in battle, to remove their shame from memory and to fuel the survivors' revenge.
"Never forget that the life you've built can be undone by a single loose thread." —Perisophia the philosopher
One chance. One throw. One perfect hit.
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
"The sad truth is that the whip of Erebos is long enough to wrap around all our throats." —Perisophia the philosopher
Priests of Erebos give an occasional reminder to mortals who have forgotten their mortality.
Phenax promised the newly dead souls they would be spared from Erebos. In this, he did not lie.
Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed.
"Some poisons enter through the blood. Some are ingested. Some are inhaled. All ways through which mortals draw strength are paths for poison." —Agathe, priest of Pharika
"Every nightmare is a caged bird that yearns to be set free." —Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
She sees mortals not as they wish to be, but as what they will become.
"I can see why this appeals to Thassa." —Kiora
The sea is always hungry.
To resist Thassa is to deny the rising tide.
No matter how big and strong you are, the sea is bigger and stronger.
Few dare to brave the Dakra Isles. Those who return are forever changed.
Where the geometries of the world collapse, a master of the Æther can harvest power beyond comprehending.
"He is Thassa's. I could not sway him." —Kiora
"Those who incur Thassa's anger will be swallowed whole by her waves, or torn asunder by her bident." —Thrasios, triton hero
Thassa felt no need to punish the sailors for their folly in crossing the straits. The kraken would do it for her.
"Pray to Thassa for what? A bigger monster to eat it? A wave that can wash it away? What then?" —Lindos, merchant of Meletis
The mind is a vessel that may be emptied like any other.
"Ask of Keranos that you may understand the stars that mark your destiny. Implore Erebos that you may accept the fate thus divulged."
"Watch the waves too long, and you may never look away." —Meletian proverb
Tritons borrow the camouflage of their oceanic prey to become predators on land.
"Is it not the embodiment of our aspirations?" —Prokopios, astronomer of Meletis
They can conjure stars from a clear sky.
"The humans and their gods never blessed me. Only the pride deserves my allegiance."
"I was not chosen for my faith in the gods. Sometimes the gods must put their faith in us." —Elspeth
Students at the Dekatia Academy learn that being sent to study with her is a lesson in itself.
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.
"There will come a time when the gods will look at mortals and shudder." —Uremides the philosopher
On Theros, the dove is a symbol not of peace but of discovery. Quick wings herald the arrival of a revelation.
"Let the humans have their pantheon. We need no gods to thrive. Even a mortal such as I can capture a part of the sun's power."
In Meletis, the walls have ears. In Akros, they have blades.
"Such deeds should be common fare for such as us." —Anax, king of Akros
"Even if I should die in the saddle, she will not let me fall to the ground." —Hypatia of the Winged Horse
It was Daeron's bravery that brought him to Odunos. But it was the magic of Meletis that brought him home.
"My left has felled a cyclops. My right has slain a giant. I bring both to every fight."
Some griffins are able to pluck mystic auras from the Æther that are hidden from other mortals.
The great hart stood like a statue, its hide painted gold by the dawn. The Champion laid down her weapons and stepped forward within an arm's length of the beast. The hart, sacred to Heliod and bathed in the god's own light, bowed to the Champion, marking her as the Chosen of the Sun God. —The Theriad
Someone had to be first to attack, but he was not alone for long.
Better to be beneath Heliod's notice than beneath his heel.
The demon had flown past the reach of Erebos's whip but not the point of the sun god's spear.
"Civilization is the sum of Ephara's gifts." —Olexa of the Twelve
Some adopted the tactics of the leonin to combat the ferocity of the minotaurs.
"The numbers of Nyxborn among us have swelled. Is this a sign of the gods' favor, or does it portend something else?"
"It has been my experience that soldiers most fervently follow generals who lead by example." —Elspeth
"Trust me. When you have earned a god's favor, you'll know."
Shields up, spears out, heels set, hearts firm.
"A keen mind wields an army as a deft hand wields a sword."
The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help.
Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . .
It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods.
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death." -Mary Shelley, Frankenstein
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
"Your nightmares inspire me, Dack."
"'Ownership' is such a gray area."
"Perhaps planning should become a higher priority for me." —Dack Fayden
His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death." —Mary Shelley, Frankenstein
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed.
A stone hurled at an enemy is deadlier in liquid form.
You thought only the gods could stop you?
Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
Oathbreaker, I cast you out!
Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest. —Nissa Revane
There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them. —Aurelia
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove.
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?" -Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
Just hope yours isn't full of coal golems.
Just hope yours isn't full of coal golems.
2013 Vintage Championship Winner
2013 Legacy Championship Winner
His name means "he who paints the earth red."
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
The orcs believe Sek'Kuar still lives in the Karplusan Mountains, gathering his dead army, intent on revenge.
"Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes."
"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."
His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths.
He can stir the gentlest spirit to wild ferocity.
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another." —Tocasia, journal entry
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
Enter and indulge your darkest fantasies, for you may never pass this way again.
Enter to find wealth, security, and eternal life . . . for just a small price up front.
Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.
"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match." —Teferi
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.
Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
"Let your heels point you home." —Ancient blessing
Enter and leave the shackles of society behind.
There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
"I love what they've done with the place." —Liliana Vess
Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands.
Enter and become a mastermind of spies, lies, and deception.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.
Enter the Senate, the seat of justice and the foundation of Ravnican society.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
"This may hurt a lot."
The ur-golem etchings begin by celebrating Mirrodin's creator, a golem of almost limitless power. They end by cursing its protector, a being called Memnarch.
Jort the Thunder-Mad spent his life perfecting a way to harness the power of the heavens.
Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.
Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." —Elspeth Tirel
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
Volcanic ash-winds batter it, climbing vines overwhelm it, dragonfire roasts it, and yet it still stands as a testament to a forgotten world.
Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.
It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself.
"It offers you what you want, not what you need." —Braids, dementia summoner
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was." —Koth of the Hammer
Lord Rondor arrived for battle with sixty war elephants, ten catapults, and two hundred of his finest archers. Then he saw the battlefield . . .
"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face." —Kordel the Cryptic
"In these bloodstains I will find the fingerprints of our oppressors." —Anowon, the Ruin Sage
"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law." —Isperia
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not." —Tezzeret
Knowledge brings the sting of disillusionment, but the pain teaches perspective.
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
"She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity." —The Seer's Parables
Moonstones grant limited foresight but unlimited advantages.
The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.
"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance." —Tezzeret
The scullers beneath Esper keep strixes as trained pets, and set them loose when a fare refuses to pay.
His name means "he who paints the earth red."
The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"
"Some think its immunity to countermagic evolved because of the constant mage attacks on Naya. I think it just ate a bunch of wizards." —Broka, drumhunter
"Birth and death are both reversible." —Nicol Bolas
They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
The orcs believe Sek'Kuar still lives in the Karplusan Mountains, gathering his dead army, intent on revenge.
"There is only one way of life in Jund: feed on the weak until you are cut down by something stronger." —Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example." —Trigori, Azorius senator
"Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes."
"Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered."
Naya teems with gargantuans, titanic monsters to whom both nature and civilization defer.
"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."
His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along.
Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization.
The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths.
"The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves." —Yolov, Simic bioengineer
Jund pulses with raw energy, waiting for shamans to shape it into useful form.
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the Predator crashing into his stronghold."
"So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?" —Eliza of the Keep
He can stir the gentlest spirit to wild ferocity.
Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.
"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."
When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king.
"Wisdom can be summed up in two rules: Control what you can. Eliminate what you cannot." —Dromar, the Banisher
"There are deep, deep places in this world that have long burned hot with little regard for the whitening of the earth's thin skin." —Sek'Kuar, Deathkeeper
Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.
There is always a greater power.
A pretty bauble of persecution.
Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky.
"Practice compassion and mercy. But know when they must end." —Aurelia
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
It's the only water source in miles of desert, but the local tribes avoid it at all costs.
"The hypocrisy of these elves is thicker than steel—destroying 'unnatural metal' with their own enchanted swords." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"See, the land itself raises an altar to the ascendancy of nature." —Mayael the Anima
"You cannot imagine what eyes you may look through tomorrow." —Aerona, elder druid
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive." —Elvish refugee
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
Some said killing the thallids only encouraged them.
When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back.
It turns prey into predator.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons." —Jade creed
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.
"I feel the vine-rhythm as my friends drive the beast to me. I will not miss my mark."
"Hunters feed on the fear of their prey." —Garruk Wildspeaker
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"I have been trapped in the lizard's lair for days. It seems to regard me as its child and will not let me leave." —Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry
It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations.
Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
The accusations spread like hungry flames.
"May your day never match your expectations." —Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer
"How thin is the veneer of civilization! A modest measure of panic will wash it off completely." —Guard Erdrud of An Karras
"Never subtle nor cryptic is the reckoning of the mighty." —Mayael the Anima
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
The rhythm isn't a call to arms, but a signal that the goblins have made a new enemy.
"You deify nature as female—kind and gentle—yet you cringe at what is natural." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
It lives in the mountaintops, feeds at the mountains' feet, and kills anything it finds on the path between.
In the Skyfang Mountains, one misstep can mean the end of an entire clan.
Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread.
Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?" —Edra, merfolk sovereign
The magus still hears the roar of the crowds. They're gone, but the will to compete remains.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.
Nothing impresses goblins more than something that's bound to kill them.
"Something down there has an appetite for what we're standing on. Let's hope it doesn't want seconds." —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"Let them cry for mercy. The only one who can hear them is me." —Siglind the Conqueror
"You wish for great destruction? It is done, my master."
In war, the best leaders are open to all tactics.
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.
"It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds." —Esara, healer adept
The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed." —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
"The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that."
As the druids had devoted their lives to preserving Dominaria, so did they devote their deaths.
Death is no excuse to stop working.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
Because the dead have no will to resist.
"There are dark, ancient arts that fascinate even me." —Sorin Markov
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
"No matter how far we push into Stensia, undeath will always remain in these lands." —Terhold, archmage of Drunau
"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather." —Rannon, Vithian holdout
Insidious fear can be the undoing of the greatest of armies.
What is a sliver of one's soul compared to unimaginable wealth?
"Better to starve to death than be bored to death." —Liliana Vess
There is nothing more repulsive than a cockroach—except a cockroach and all its friends.
The demon Griselbrand dared to stand against Avacyn, earning him the loathing of thousands and the admiration of a few.
"As with any malevolent being, the trick is knowing how long you can afford to keep it in your service." —Liliana Vess
Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
"It's not the darkness I fear but dull and numbing shades of gray." —Sydri, galvanic genius
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
"Do not speak the name of the sea, for if it should hear you and rise up, no fortress in the world could hide you." —Gimara of Halimar
Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.
"Plans evolved within the tent decide a victory 1,000 li away."
"All clouds should be so organized." —Isperia
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.
"True riches are found in the mazes of the mind." —Tamiyo, the Moon Sage
"The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits." —Nekusar, the Mindrazer
"Long live . . . me."
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
"I'd build an entire fortress of them if I could." —Mzali, Lighthouse archmage
"This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty."
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover." —Talrand, sky summoner
The winds of change have a mind of their own.
Sentience is its natural habitat.
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"As long as I pull the strings, you will dance." —Tezzeret
"Do as I think, not as I do." —Jace Beleren
At Red Cliffs, Kongming and Zhou Yu each wrote his plan for defeating Wei on the palm of his hand. They laughed as they both revealed the same word, "Fire."
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.
"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it." —Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami." —Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka
Debates between wizards are never purely academic.
The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes.
Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again.
"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
"A great warrior studies many different disciplines and takes the best from each." —Gideon Jura
She incubates her eggs in gold and mana.
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height—Had never been, nor ever was again."
Its wings disturb more than air.
Infinitely powerless.
"Purge the damned, for they have no place among the righteous!" —Seeta of Thraben
Naya's trees grow tall and sturdy. Their foliage intertwines to form dewcups, rainwater pools where the elves gather to celebrate life.
"As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable." —Augustin IV
The sky rang with the cries of armored seraphs, and the darkness made a tactical retreat.
"Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved."
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers." —Jazal Goldmane
They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives.
Philosophers speak of a place where myths wash like tides upon the shores of the real.
The price of prophecy is a vacant eye socket.
"What we call magic is nothing more than hope crystallized into a destination." —Perisophia the philosopher
"The youths prattle on about heroic deeds, but avoiding the noose is a feat more daring than their entire careers." —Basarios the Blade
Purphoros once loved Nylea, the god of the hunt. His passion inspired his most astounding works of art.
The histories speak of two feuding rulers whose deaths were celebrated and whose monuments symbolized the end of their wars. In truth they were peaceful lovers, their story lost to the ages.
"The gods gave us no wings to fly, but they gave us an even greater gift: imagination." —Daxos of Meletis
Beware the gifts of an ill-tempered forge god.
Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms.
The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened. —The Theriad
"I know its lightness, for I have seen it fly. I know its weight, for I have seen it strike." —Brigone, soldier of Meletis
His memories remained in the Underworld, but his cruelty crossed the Rivers with him.
Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy.
Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts.
Her melody melds death and beauty with such artistry that even the gods weep to hear it.
When Athreos gathers the newly dead to be ferried across the Five Rivers That Ring the World, he sends skeletal griffins to fetch those who stray.
"Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting."
"The direst venom becomes a panacea under Pharika's guidance. I bring it to the worthy, clinging at the edge of the abyss."
A warcaller merely brings the herd together. After that, the meat-hunger is all the encouragement they need.
"Stoke a fire hot enough and you'll never run out of things to burn." —Xenagos, the Reveler
She paints pictures with words, though not all pictures show the truth.
One offering to appease her on her arrival. Another to celebrate her departure.
Akros's greatest heroes are also its royalty.
"Fair fight? How could it be a fair fight? We're Akroans. They're not."
"Let each challenge make you a better warrior." —Anthousa of Setessa
"With a diet of hydras, giants, and massive serpents, anything would get that big." —Corisande, Setessan hunter
"None can own the land's bounty. The gods made this world for all to share its riches. And I'm not just saying that because you caught me stealing your fruit."
Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove.
As soon as she faces a monster, she begins composing its epitaph.
"Enemies of the wood! Your presence here is a slap in Nylea's face. Do not be surprised if she slaps back." —Telphe, druid of Nylea
Thakolides the Mighty Slayer of minotaurs Vanquisher of giants Killed by a scorpion —Inscription on an Akroan grave
"I thought its back was turned!" "A centaur has two backs!"
"When I asked my commander the reward for killing that prancing nuisance, he told me, 'None! I want to kill him myself!'" —Phrogas, soldier of Akros
"Any festival you can walk away from wasn't worth attending in the first place."
"Poets speak of your unrivaled speed," the Champion said to the assembled centaurs, "but it is plain to see that your true strength lies in your unwavering loyalty to one another." —The Theriad
Khestes the Adamant, the Champion's closest ally among the centaurs, took one stone to his shoulder and another to his flank. He held his stride and his aim, and let fly the arrow that killed the giant Grinthax. —The Theriad
It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs.
"The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands."
"A grudge is a tattoo worn on the inside." —Setessan warrior saying
Nylea's sacred lynx guards those who honor the Nessian Wood and hunts those who don't.
"Are the gods angry at our discontent with what they give us, or jealous that we made a thing they cannot?" —Kleon the Iron-Booted
The defenders said not a word. Their shields, spears, and stances were warning enough.
For the first time in many years, Elspeth asked for help.
"A herd is only as strong as its weakest. Our weakest just killed his third minotaur raider—today." —Braulios of Pheres Band
Some seers read bones or entrails. Others just like to break things.
The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales.
The light in the woods just before dawn reveals a glimmering network of branches, roots, and spiderwebs. The acolytes of Kruphix walk this lattice unseen.
"You can tell something's really valuable by the sound it makes when you slam your staff into it."
The left head keeps the right head starved as motivation to track new prey.
There is no gift more precious or more perilous than fire.
Acolytes of Purphoros hammer the world until they see the sparks of change.
A satyr is bound by nothing—not home, not family, not loyalty.
"I see a spark of pure rage. Soon that spark will spread from the depths of Kragma. Soon its fire will engulf the polis." —Hira, street oracle
"Even my last breath will be a blow struck for Iroas."
"Early olive buds? A good omen. Flock of crows? Not so good. Mountain exploding? Bad. Very, very bad." —Hira, street oracle
"Their only dreams are of full stomachs." —Kleon the Iron-Booted
"He outran arrows. He outran even the archers' insults." —Bayma, storyteller of Lagonna Band
"The hand of Keranos can be seen in every rumbling storm cloud. Best not to stand where he points." —Rakleia of Shrine Peak
"It used to be a lair. Now it's just a tunnel."
A cyclops has two moods: angry and asleep.
All the world is Purphoros's anvil.
"I see your future, mantled in ash."
Attending a satyr revel requires a high tolerance for pain.
"When fire is shackled to candle and torch, subjected to insignificance, it finds a way to lash out at its masters." —Vala, disciple of Purphoros
"The temple has been rededicated. It belongs to Mogis now." —Rastos, disciple of Mogis
It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest.
"Defeating the Meletians was not so difficult. I needed only to move a mountain." —Eocles, oracle of Purphoros
"You have led us to triumph over the forces of Mogis!" said Brygus the Brave, clapping the Champion on the back. The Champion wiped the sweat and blood from her brow. "I count eight graves," she said. "Too many to call this a victory." —The Theriad
The Iroan Games award no medals. Athletes vie for a visit from Iroas, god of victory.
There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods.
An Akroan soldier's worth is measured by the number of swords raised by his battle cry.
"I could heal a snakebite. Looks like you got bitten by a constellation." —Aescalos, healer of Pharika
"Knowledge is such a burden. Release it. Release all your fears to me." —Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver
Conspirators poisoned the oracle not because her visions were wrong, but because they were right.
To members of the cult of Erebos, gold-infused tattoos symbolize the inevitable grasp of the god of death.
They lived in different nations and fought in different eras, but as the Returned, they link arms as one.
Driven away by his living kin, he wanders mourning through the wilderness, seeking the dead city of Asphodel.
The dead know lessons the living haven't learned.
"The venom cleanses the sickness from your body, but it will not be pleasant, and you may not survive. Pharika's blessings are fickle." —Solon, acolyte of Pharika
The Returned have no memory of the Underworld or of their former lives. The golden masks they wear are the last gifts of the selves they left behind.
"No matter who their fickle hearts worship, all mortals belong to one god in the end." —Iadorna, death priest of Erebos
Gold coin, battered helmet, broken wrist bone—all have the same value in the eyes of a harpy.
Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break.
More disturbing than the unknown is a distortion of the familiar.
With spear held high, the Champion came to meet Thyrogog of the Ashlands, who wore the old king's skin as a cloak and fed on the flesh of innocents. The foul minotaur raised the great axe called Goremaster and charged. —The Theriad
"You're just like me: ruthless, cunning, and ambitious. Obviously you're a threat." —Basarios the Blade
"Our ambition drives us forward. Together we will claim what is ours, no matter who holds it."
"Death is not a certainty. Erebos determines when a mortal's time is up." —Iadorna, death priest of Erebos
When harpies demand a toll to cross through their territory, consider yourself lucky if they permit payment in coin.
He killed out of hate, so now only hate sustains him. He sought immortality, so the gods gave it to him.
"You are breathing borrowed air."
Philosophers say those lost at sea ascended to a more perfect realm. Sailors say they drowned.
"Mists are carefree. They drift where they will, unencumbered by rocks and river beds." —Thrasios, triton hero
At sunrise, the Champion and her companions awoke to find their supplies gone and Brygus, their sentry, dead. Carefully arranged piles of ornamental shells gave a clear warning: go no further. —The Theriad
"Thassa has blessed me with power and insight. I am careful not to disappoint her."
"Was this gift cast adrift for any to find, or did Thassa guide the currents to bring it to me alone?" —Kenessos, priest of Thassa
"The most enlightened mages create beauty from violence." —Medomai the Ageless
When a god's will is against you, the day never ends well.
"What has neither mouth nor throat, yet swallows captain, crew, and boat?" —Sphinx's riddle
Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them.
"It augments anamnesis. What is so confusing about that?" —Perisophia the philosopher
"Every object has an echo in the Æther beyond the world. Every idea has a shadow that can be brought to light."
Even those who leave the labyrinth never escape it, forever dreaming of their time trapped within.
When the sea god Thassa wishes to speak with a mortal, she does not issue a summons or grant a vision requesting a visit. The sea simply brings her guest before her.
"You dryfolk must take the air for granted. You constantly insist on wasting it." —Kenessos, priest of Thassa
The tale of her life was already written, but that didn't mean she could predict the ending.
"You thought only the gods could stop you?"
Another imminent battle subsided in busy snuffling and carefree rooting.
He calls upon both the currents in the sea and the current in the clouds.
Seeing a chimera overhead foretells good fortune, but only because seeing one any closer foretells dismemberment.
Don't try to ride this steed unless you've got gills too.
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
"Some fates you can see coming for you, plain as day, and there's nothing you can do about them." —Callaphe the mariner
"Why pray to the gods, who feed on your worship? Dissolve your illusions and see the true nature of things." —Xenagos, the Reveler
It was in fields of grain, not fields of battle, that the Champion learned to bear the yoke of duty to the gods. She worked the land long before she was called on to defend it. —The Theriad
Trust is the only bridle a pegasus will accept.
The Champion and the philosopher Olexa returned from the opposing camp at dusk. Behind them, the enemy raised sail and departed, breaking the siege. When asked what the two had done, the Champion replied, "We spoke to them." —The Theriad
Legend speaks of the Sun Spear, the mighty weapon that can strike any point in Theros, even the depths of the Underworld.
"I hear the gods' voices in my dreams each night, and I offer bloody trophies on their altars each day."
On the fourth day they passed through a forest of immense stacked stones. Althemone, youngest of the companions, called these pillars the work of a god, but the Champion knew better. She quickened her pace. —The Theriad
Most griffins must be caught and broken into the service of the polis. Not so in Setessa, where they volunteer.
"Your god teaches you only how to kill. Karametra teaches me to defend what I hold dear. That is why I will prevail."
She asks pointed questions of the dead who wait for Athreos, learning of life from those who are about to leave it.
The works of one god last only as long as the patience of another.
His soldiers etch his words on the insides of their shields, their inspiration always in sight during battle.
Formerly oppressed by the polis of Meletis, leonin occasionally "mistake" their old enemies for game.
In time, all things turn to dust. Some things just take less time.
"The best lessons are not the ones I teach. They are the ones the pupils realize for themselves."
Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor.
No foe is more hated than the former friend.
"You. Poet. Be sure to write this down."
"When you threaten the sanctity of the polis, you insult Ephara herself. If she doesn't smite you, I will."
The last thing to go through the cyclops's mind was a twelve-ton block of marble.
The awards and medals of polis-dwellers mean nothing to griffins, but they repay acts of generosity.
"The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail." —Cymede, queen of Akros
"Training and studies aid a soldier in meager amounts. The gods do the rest." —Brigone, soldier of Meletis
"It is hope, hooved and winged." —Cymede, queen of Akros
It's never good to walk into an ambush, but with the right spell you might walk out again.
Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove.
"The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands."
The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales.
The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows.
Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.
"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!" —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle.
"Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." —Euphemia, Nexus watcher
A single drop turns skin to scale and fist to claw.
"Stoke a fire hot enough and you'll never run out of things to burn." —Xenagos, the Reveler
Elmut had slaughtered vampires, slain werewolves, and destroyed hordes of zombies. Sadly, he never got over his fear of spiders.
While the root remains, the tree yet lives.
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?" —Chandra Nalaar
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error.
"The sky isn't falling—it's being thrown at us!" —Otak, Tin Street shopkeep
It speaks no commands but is always obeyed.
"He bears the marks of ages upon his skin, memories of dreams long dead and best left buried." —The Seer's Parables
The snap of sinew. The crunch of bone. A cry for mercy. These are the music of the Gruul.
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.
It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."
"Any festival you can walk away from wasn't worth attending in the first place."
In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy.
Even dragons fear its silken strands.
"Wood is wasted in the dirt." —Orcish proverb
Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence." —Oracle en-Vec
"I am the rock of the polis. Death only strengthens me."
Though the old holy wards and roadside shrines have begun to fail, faith in Avacyn still holds true power.
"Boom! Boom! Boots the size of oxcarts, then an axe like a falling sun. Elves scattered. Trees scattered. Even the hills ran for the hills!" —Clachan Tales
"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."
"What cannot be destroyed will be bound." —Oath of Avacyn
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.
"My course is before me. There is nothing behind me."
What self-indulgence tears down, discipline builds up again.
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
"A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy." —The Seer's Parables
She crushes darkness beneath her charger's hooves.
Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air.
The Dimir agents watched from the shadows. "Eight hours, and I've yet to see him blink," Nefara hissed. "I suggest we find another way in."
Akros's greatest heroes are also its royalty.
Confront her, and feel the hooves of her steed. Ignore her, and feel the sting of her arrow.
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
The tips of her bolts are blunt, but her aim is deadly sharp.
"Once more into Devil's Breach, soldiers. I want another devil tail for my collection."
His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
"It is hope, hooved and winged." —Cymede, queen of Akros
He has nothing left but his resentment.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to." -Lazav
Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.
When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.
As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.
There is always a greater power.
His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable.
Over such beauty, wars are fought. With such power, wars are won.
"Many must die for the one who should not have perished."
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"You call it luck. I call it preparation."
"We could no more abandon the forest than the stars could abandon the night sky."
The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear." —Gaddock Teeg
Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places.
Some worlds possess a hidden core where life's essence constantly surges.
Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers.
There are worse ways to die, but not many.
Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance.
A symbol of ferocity in oppressive times.
A symbol of conviction in uncertain times.
A symbol of sagacity in bewildering times.
A symbol of passion in indifferent times.
A symbol of ambition in ruthless times.
Slivers destroy those who come close to the Skep, the central hive. Shards of torn metal litter the ground as a warning to any artificers inquisitive about the hive's inner workings.
The good news is it's so simple a goblin could use it. The bad news is it's so simple a goblin could use it.
An inferno is just a gesture away.
Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust.
"At my feet, invasions end." —Statue inscription
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect." —Baron Sengir
"It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was." —Koth of the Hammer
"It is as if this world has been expecting our blessings." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
An Auriok shield is polished to a mirror finish even on the inside, enabling its bearer to watch foes ahead and behind.
"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
Shepherds in Kalonia know it's better to let sheep roam than have them be trapped when the wurms are feeding.
"If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores." —Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
In the dim light beneath the vast trees of Deepglade, baloths prowl in search of prey. Their guttural calls are more felt than heard, but their attack scream carries for miles.
They make terrible pets . . . unless you don't like your other pets.
"You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight." —Garruk Wildspeaker
No matter how much the slivers change, their collective might remains.
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
"Some gaze upon the forest and see trees. I see true power."
"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain." —Garruk Wildspeaker
Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.
"I see in their interconnectedness a strange embodiment of the natural order." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.
"And all this time I thought we were tracking it." —Juruk, Kalonian tracker
Even baloths fear its feeding time.
"Wonders hide where the trees grow thickest." —Mul Daya proverb
He who hesitates is lunch.
The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.
"The forest is my cover and I hold it close. In such a tight embrace, there is no room for wickedness."
"It has a quickness about it that seems unnatural for its large size, yet its hunger is about right." —Endril, Kalonian naturalist
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else." —Lord Hilneth
"Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest." —Nissa Revane
Even dragons fear its silken strands.
"Tell the cooks to prepare the fires. Tonight we feast!" —Tolar Wolfbrother, Krosan tracker
"One of my greatest teachers." —Garruk Wildspeaker
Nature abhors a lot of things.
"I am neither their drover nor their leader. To these majestic beasts, I am simply their herdmate and nothing more."
Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery.
"May your day never match your expectations." —Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer
No guts, no glory.
"The common folk call it the breaking of the crust or the spilling of fire. Geomancers call it target practice." —Ryda, geomancer
Lightning reflexes, thunderous might.
Every inch of a sliver's body is a potential claw, appendage, or projectile.
You're too busy recoiling in fear to realize that it's already hit you.
"Looks like that wasn't darksteel after all." —Koth of the Hammer
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
When you see the world as a dragon sees it, everything looks fit to burn.
"It is not in me to tread lightly." —Ryda, geomancer
It stalks the Regathan highlands, leaving behind melted snow, scorched earth, and the charred corpses of would-be temple robbers.
The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.
Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip.
"Few can coax the creatures within the magma to be cooled and take form." —Koth of the Hammer
"It's not just you. Everyone makes it angry." —Ardenoth, elvish nature advocate
"The victim was either clawed to death or struck by lightning. Possibly both." —Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
A strict upgrade over the cinder hatchet.
"I'm not running away! I'm figuring out the best routes."
When you need to convey that special kind of message.
He doesn't hate small folk. He just likes the squishing sound they make.
"You're in luck. I brought enough to share." —Chandra Nalaar
"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth." —Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs.
"This is why I hate settlements. They lull you into a false sense of security." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
A single eye, blinded by rage.
Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."
"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side." "Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?" "Yes." "So shouldn't we—" "No."
"Your world is formed from the same power that wraps my burning hand around your throat." —Shrazik, lavamancer
They move in a synchronized swarm, turning entire squads into heaps of bloody rags and bones in an instant.
"One emitted a strange series of buzzing clicks and guttural commands, then clawed arms emerged from all of them. Is there no limit to their adaptations?" —Hastric, Thunian scout
Goblin generals don't distinguish between troops and ammunition.
Some days you stand to greet the horizon. Other days the horizon stands to greet you.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
"My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls."
"You shouldn't be so attached to something as fragile as flesh." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Grave robbers digging down cautiously listen for anything digging up.
"How can you serve me? By dying."
"The work that went into creating this magnificent specimen. Horrific, deadly, well-balanced. Not all necromancers do elegant work like this." —Lestin, necromancer
Raising the bones of Hekjek the Mad proved far easier than getting them to lie back down.
When the hive must feed, every appendage becomes an additional mouth.
"Do not weep for the frail. Their time couldn't have been that far off." —Nathrac, plaguesower
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed." —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
"For every living person there are generations of dead. Which realm would you rather rule?" —Liliana Vess
The dread gases didn't kill Farbid. But as he lay in the muck, miserable and helpless, watching ghouls and rats advance on him, he wished they had.
"There is one hour of the night even we do not watch." —Sedva, captain of the watch
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
"Look at that. Shuffling, wobbling, entrails placed haphazardly. It's shameful. Who would let that kind of work flap about for all to see?" —Lestin, necromancer
"What a pity. You should have written it down." —Liliana Vess
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it." —Sorin Markov
"You harbor such vast potential. It would be such a shame to let you die of old age." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
The necromancer's touch strips away memory and loyalty, and only strength and malice remain.
On still nights you can hear its rotted teeth grinding tirelessly on scavenged bones.
Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile.
"It hurts more if you think about it." —Hooks, Cabal torturer
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
"Sometimes I come across a stone finger or foot and I know I'm in cockatrice territory." —Rulak, bog guide
When the bog ran short on small animals, Ekri turned to the surrounding farmlands.
When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled.
One misstep in the swamp and the evil that sleeps beneath will rise to find you.
"He expects a reward, but the only piece of silver he'll get from me is my blade in his gut." —Shelac, necromancer
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
"The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients."
The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road.
"Your flesh is unprepared for my gifts."
"Some treasures aren't worth finding, let alone stealing." —Dack Fayden
"Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible." —Gorghul, augur of skulls
Many have heard the slither of dragging armor and the soft squelch of its voice. But only its victims ever meet its icy gaze.
"All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark." —Sun Tzu, Art of War, trans. Giles
"Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings."
"This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes.
"I have seen countless petty warmongers gaze on it for a time before turning away." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
He was left with just enough memory to understand what he had lost.
"They're smart enough to understand that war means lots of carrion." —Griv, condor rider
"I hope none of those were important!"
"Yesterday you were just a figment of your master's imagination. I liked you better then." —Shai Fusan, archmage
"Perhaps you could try throwing a rock? That might be better suited to your intellect."
They call it "stitcher's anesthesia," a spell to deaden the senses while the mad doctors begin their grisly work.
Seacoast drakes have been known to follow ships for hundreds of miles, waiting to snap up garbage, bait, and the occasional sailor.
Kapsho merfolk have infiltrated fortresses as remote as the desert citadel in Sunari in their relentless quest for arcane knowledge.
A skilled Izzet chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next.
"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks." —Jace Beleren
"Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create."
"Keep one eye on the cliff road or you may fall to your death. Keep one eye on the sky or your death may fall on you." —Manfried Ulmach, Elgaud Master-at-Arms
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
The more important the message, the larger the messenger.
"No simple coin toss can solve this riddle. You must think and choose wisely." —Shai Fusan, archmage
Masters of adaptation, galeriders serve multiple purposes useful to the hive. When they're not patrolling their territories, their majestic wings serve to circulate cool air through the vast hive chambers.
"I'll make ice chimes of your bones."
"What you attempt to pull from the Æther, I can spread onto the wind." —Jace Beleren
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
Gryffid found his way home and resumed life as best he could, constantly hiding his newfound fear of clouds.
"You trust in the shadows of a breeze." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
Early sailors thought they were tricks of the mind or perhaps manatees. As more and more ships were classified as lost to "manatee attacks," the truth began to dawn.
He knows your strengths, your weaknesses, and the shape of that unfortunate birthmark on your backside.
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
Creatures displaced from time still turn up every year, stranded by the temporal disaster that once swept across Dominaria.
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"When I said we needed more swords to protect the realm, this was not quite what I had in mind." —Olander, tactician of the Northern Verge
"They are the finest companions in the realm. Swift, clever, and easily trained to hunt intruders." —Almira, falconer
With the Stonehorn, piety and power are one.
"Though the slivers may sometimes resemble us, they are not human. Anyone who fights them must remember this." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
"Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic."
"You will be reimbursed for your donation.""The reimbursement is spiritual." —Temple signs
"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins." —Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls
"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!" —General Avitora
Cowards watch. Heroes act.
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
"Only when my sword lies idle shall I rejoice."
Through its watchful gaze, all slivers may see.
"You old, immobile clod! If I could stuff your doltish head with knowledge, I'd do it just so someone else could fully comprehend what your stubbornness has cost me!" —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"Out of this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety." —William Shakespeare, King Henry IV, Part I
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
Choose your battles carefully. For example, avoid the big guy.
"By all means, keep trying."
Some are born to rule. The rest are born to bow before them.
Sliver young are sorted into clutches according to their potential and their future role. Human scholars can only guess how those are determined.
Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.
"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith." —Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
A prayer to bring demons to their knees.
She crushes darkness beneath her charger's hooves.
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
Four claws, two wings, one beak, no fear.
"You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression." —Gideon Jura
He protects Benalia as much with his reputation as with his force of arms.
"Their appendages are sharper than our swords and quicker than our bows." —Hastric, Thunian scout
"Virtue can't survive without strength." —Ardanna of the Angelic Council
"Oathbreaker, I cast you out!"
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
Even the wicked have nightmares.
"The air stirred as if fanned by angels' wings, and the enemy was turned aside." —Tales of Ikarov the Voyager
As demons are drawn to suffering, angels are drawn to acts of benevolence.
"United, our roar will level mountains."
Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence.
"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor." -Barvisa, courtroom scribe
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.
"There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires." —Nulakam the Archivist
Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells.
As the dawns break, the manta soars.
When a changeling adopts a form no other changeling has taken, a rune appears in the caverns of Velis Vel to mark the event.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"Melt that which was never frozen." —Spellbomb inscription
"It contains the wisdom of generations of our people. We permit only a chosen few to don the raiment." —Imran, Viridian elder
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.
"It puts an end to what ails you." —Jeorg, Valla battlemaster
The parts are as strong as the whole.
"Release that which was never caged." —Spellbomb inscription
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold." —Grensch, merrow cutthroat
"Master the chaotic forces of nature, and you shall master magic." —Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest
Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another.
"She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity." —The Seer's Parables
"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed." —The Seer's Parables
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
The Soul of the World has returned.
"The soul is only as eternal as I say it is." —Sharuum the Hegemon
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer." —Ajani
"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend." —Elspeth
The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
Ground into the footprints of the ravaging herd were clumps of salt from Benalia, moss from Llanowar, dust from Hurloon, and ash from as far as Urborg.
What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf.
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
"Beings of the rifts are not natural. No longer will these abominations tread upon the body of Gaea."
Growth has no limits.
When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
"Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size." —Kithkin superstition
"An ancient, powerful force has overtaken the valley. I sympathize for its former inhabitants, but I rejoice for the land itself." —Olanti, Muraganda druid
It grew in lands lit by pride and watered by tears.
Man's best fungus.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.
They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.
"Aren't there boggarts enough in Lorwyn? Couldn't it turn into a sheep? Or a sunflower?" —Olly of Goldmeadow
"Fire is the universal language." —Jhoira, master artificer
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ." —A tale of Auntie Grub
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
"Some goblins are expendable. Some are impossible to get rid of. But he's both—at the same time!" —Starke
From trinket to trauma.
"It's difficult to heal a rift after it begins wandering about on its own." —Teferi
Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.
"Take care what you offer the ignus. Food, perhaps. Coins. But nothing flammable!" —Stovic, village eccentric
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
"They'd pour out of the warrens to make war (and to make room for the littering matrons)." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
Five-toed grave —Kithkin phrase meaning "a giant's footprint"
Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
Among the solitude-loving giantkind, teamwork is unusual. But he appreciates hearing the occasional "Swing down and to your left."
"And that's when it was discovered that boggarts have just half a brain." —The Book of Other Folk
"What do they need all this stuff for? They're dead. We're alive. Simple enough."
Leeches never tire of feeding.
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
Death is only the beginning of the end.
It plucks away memories like choice bits of carrion.
Tangling vines, fetid murk, paralyzing poisons, and crawling dead. The swamp is nature's trap waiting to be exploited by unnatural minds.
Like being trapped in a perpetual sneeze, faerie-dust poisoning is both exhilarating and agonizing.
One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.
Boggarts get so excited when they find something new to smash that they really don't notice who gets underfoot.
There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
At night, the faeries steal dreamstuff for their queen. At daybreak, countless creatures wake weak and hollow.
The barbarians of Jund believe the bottomless tar pits extend forever into other, darker worlds.
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
The swarm's million wings stir the foulest of breezes.
Greatness, at any cost.
One croaked sermon spreads propaganda and plague.
"I crept up on him, quiet as a guttermouse. And then suddenly I found myself facedown in a latrine pit behind Tin Street Market." —Sirislav, Dimir spy
"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."
Every culture has its unlucky numbers. In a city where you're either alone, in a crowd, or being stabbed in the back, two is the worst number of all.
"Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you." —Lady Azami
The fae know when they're not wanted. That's precisely why they show up.
When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars.
Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.
It was created by the Iquati as a living memory—one that objects to being forgotten.
"Ever seen a changeling fly into a lantern?" —Calydd, kithkin farmer
He loved his cities in the clouds. When he traveled to the lands below, he brought many reminders of his home.
Each spell is an intricate tapestry, and Kira is the great unraveler.
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
"Sages who take the time to verify their sources are rewarded for their diligence." —Jhoira, to Teferi
"Give me a sword and I'll kill a few enemies. But give me a hammer and a fiery forge, and I'll turn the tide of battle."
Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within." —Noboru, master kitemaker
"No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool."
It drifts through the streets as a breeze of collective sighs, wilting the bustle with dreams and heavy eyelids.
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
He remembers a past of light and healing. But he lives the bitter present—parching salt, scouring wind, and the withering heat of the desert.
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends." —Journal found in Numai
Sometimes a curious giant singles out a "little one" to follow for a few days, never realizing the effect it will have on the little one's life.
"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes." —Kenzo the Hardhearted
The giants believe the fossils they find in Lorwyn's rocky heights are dreams frozen in time, and they treasure them.
Its wings disturb more than air.
"There are all kinds of strengths, but if you have strength of soul, the others will follow." —Galanda Feudkiller
"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is . . . suppressed."
"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself." —Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean
Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.
The more the scarier.
A fight put off forever is already won.
Today it flies with the flock. Tomorrow it may wake to find them gone, its body in an unfamiliar form.
"Memnarch or the vedalken salvage most of the large machines, leaving us only scraps. Scraps are enough."
The paradise of Amrou Haven had become a field of cinders. Its people struggled to survive, hoping to see visions of its past in the strange storms that quickly passed.
The people of Amrou were scattered by war and driven into hiding. Scouts maintain the beacon fires that signal "return" and "home."
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.
Simic biomancers don't concern themselves with guarding a gate. Their ever-present creations are enough to ward off trespassers.
The Selesyna welcome all to help them heal the city's wounds. The price, however, is devotion to the guild and a selfless belief in Trostani.
Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin.
"We do not believe in hiding our wealth in the shadows. This is Orzhov, and this is how we reward greatness." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
Beyond lies the culmination of all Izzet projects, a grand experiment led by the dragon Niv-Mizzet himself.
The scarred rubble around the gate is testament to past meetings of the Clans, summits that inevitably devolved into brawls.
Every part of the gate was reclaimed from forgotten ruins and imbued with new purpose by the Swarm.
In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain.
It promises protection to those in need and proclaims a warning to any who would threaten Ravnican law.
The Azorius symbol stares down like a great eye, reminding visitors of the watchful presence of Isperia and her lawmages.
Simic symbols are among the most intricate and fragile, yet few vandalize them for fear of the strange lifeforms that might be released.
"Break it if you must. The loss of one relic is nothing next to the value of enriching us all." —Suniel the Woodwise
"Burn. Bleed. Enjoy." —Cluestone inscription
A symbol of power and wealth, the only commodities that matter to the Orzhov.
It holds within it an unsolvable riddle. A creative answer yields an invitation to the guild.
Forgotten under rocks and vines, Gruul symbols mark the sites of primitive rituals where shamans once chanted to the wild.
Golgari mold collects whispers, intelligence that is later harvested by Jarad and his high chancellors.
It waits in the chill of the undercity, holding nameless secrets for those who dare to touch it.
"In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass." —Cluestone inscription
Its three sides represent the Sova, judges and arbitrators; the Jelenn, scribes and elocutors; and the Lyev, lawmages and enforcers.
"Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost."
Many Ravnicans think of nature as orderly groves and elf-tended rot farms. They haven't seen the Gruul wilds.
"We learned something from the Simic. Unfortunately for them." —Nefara, Dimir agent
The Gruul seek unbounded strength. The Dimir deliver cruel irony.
"There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them." —Aurelia
"I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility."
"All that steel doesn't make them slower. It makes them bolder." —Tajic, Blade of the Legion
As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay.
"I run the maze alone, but I fight with the full might of the Legion."
For the Rakdos, "suicidal charge" and "good showmanship" are one and the same.
"We raised eelhawks to control the squidflies, then waspcrabs to prey on the eelhawks. Now what do we do with all these waspcrabs?" —Gulistan, Simic biomancer
Its victims become mindless lunatics. Conveniently, that's the first step in joining the Cult of Rakdos.
"That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you."
The audience quickly realized a few things: it wasn't a magic trick, there wasn't candy in there, and they'd need new clothes.
For the Gruul, bone-crushing rage is the first priority. Accuracy comes in a distant ninetieth.
"You can always count on the Azorius to ruin a party." —Massacre Girl
"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
"We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
"Everything serves a purpose. Even you." —Vorel of the Hull Clade
Mirko Vosk hunted anyone with knowledge of the maze, draining the chances of the other guilds.
"The Obzedat have revived you with purpose. Don't squander their blessing." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"Let him in. He's on the list." —Olrich, Rakdos club owner
The devout sacrifice themselves to it hoping for escape from their debts to the guild, but many end up owing in the afterlife.
"Welcome to my collection."
Few among the Azorius have ever spoken with the sphinxes, but all have felt their influence.
The Dimir employ the spirits of Ravnica's ancient, nameless dead, guiding their malevolence toward selected victims.
"We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born." —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
"All pilots and prototypes destroyed. Extensive collateral damage inflicted. Conclusion: flawless design." —Manual of Melek
Every soldier returns from battle changed: by hardship, by blood, by a glimpse of glory.
Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone.
One part mizzium, two parts elemental energy, eleven parts danger.
"Channeling the rage of the beast is the easy part. Explaining why you woke up with no memory in a pile of mangled lawmages—that's trickier."
When Selesnya needed a champion, Emmara put the ranks of her guild before herself—making her the perfect choice.
The rot farmer's first rite of passage is to craft a pair of work stilts.
"Everyone deserves a day in court."
Some of Orzhov's cruelest collectors remember their debtors by taste alone.
Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch.
They fight for their home with more loyalty than any conscript.
Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate.
Leaders shape the minds of their allies. It takes a master to shape the minds of enemies.
A true Boros commando only calls for reinforcements so they can clean up the mess.
Ral Zarek's brainstorms bring actual thunder and lightning.
"When the Simic say to take command of your life, we don't mean just your career." —Vorel of the Hull Clade
A lawmage's runic script is an act of governance given form: legislation written directly onto the air itself.
Wolf-riders of Selesnya apprentice from a young age. Each rider raises a wolf pup from birth to serve as a mount, hoping that one day the two will share the honor of guarding the Great Concourse.
The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways.
"It preys on those who would spy on our lands, so we never prey on it." —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
In Ravnica's wilder districts, nature still stirs, and its protectors still mind their posts.
Phytohydras are banned as houseplants in many residential spires. If left unfed, they find their own exit—usually at the cost of extensive property damage.
Every street corner is a hunting ground, every citizen potential prey.
"The gift of life must be freely given. Anything less would diminish us all." —Arin, Selesnya healer
It returned to the leylines as quickly as it had appeared, leaving only broken bodies to mark its passage.
The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system.
"The maaka remain loyal to us in this time of strife. We don't even have to feed them—our enemies do." —Nedja, Gruul shaman
He doesn't care whether he's rioting about trade rights or just having a drunken brawl. He wakes up every morning eager to smash some heads.
"When justice descends, the servant will burn with the master." —Aurelia
"The maze seems to fight us at every turn, resisting our efforts to solve it." —Niv-Mizzet
"Why do guards always look surprised when we bash them?" asked Ruric. "I think they expect a bribe," said Thar.
When the guilds cooperate, the guildless celebrate their peaceful society. When the guilds clash, the guildless just try to keep out of the way.
There are many gates into the undercity, but few ways out.
"You caught something on a cold night's stroll? No, I'd say something caught you." —Mezim Magrah, civic healer
Rakdos rioters paint their faces to resemble the drakes' bloodied muzzles.
"Follow your passion, I always say. Might as well get paid to do what you love."
Travelers in the undercity dread the horrors and assassins of the Dimir, but nearly as many die from more mundane hazards.
The Golgari maze-runner Varolz hungers to prove his fortitude in battle, and his trail of victims feeds other hungers.
Make sure you bleed the fine print.
"I'm in the field of procurement, and business is good. The guilds want all kinds of maps and relics these days, though what they want them for I'm not quite sure."
Air currents whip through the city corridors, creating wind tunnels that accelerate urban drakes toward their prey.
The Implicit Maze winds through Ravnica, connecting arcane landmarks of all ten guilds.
Sentries guard Ravnica's landmarks and outlying districts, unaware of these places' import to the maze.
"The most insidious thing in the world is nonsense that sounds just plausible enough to listen to." —Lazav
"It's always satisfying to stymie the best efforts of a rival, but the reactions of the Gruul are particularly amusing." —Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
The pattern of the Implicit Maze extends in more than two dimensions.
"You see a bird, an oak, a packbeast. I see the potential for an army." —Lalia, Selesnya dryad
"You will pass with respect, or you will not pass at all."
"Sometimes it forgets to loosen its grip before taking flight. I lost my roof that way." —Ecaban, Boros scout
"Ravnicans need order. If they don't have it, we shall bring it to them." —Isperia
"Scores will die in the name of peace. That is what you call compromise?" —Gideon Jura, to Aurelia
The route has been known for millennia, but only by those with no means to tell it.
The Azorius have so many codes and statutes that you're always in violation of one of them.
They've been probation officers, army grunts, bounty hunters—anything to make their district safer.
"We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned."
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.
"They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist." -Nikya of the Old Ways
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
First the insult, then the injury.
Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
www.MagicTheGathering.com
A devil's hands are never idle.
Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
In the spirit of inquiry, Tibalt applied a battery of agony spells. They yielded nothing on the vampire's whereabouts, but the screams were reward enough.
"Enough!"
"Pained defiance or shameful surrender—every reaction is a pleasant surprise." —Tibalt
"What good is your blade without your breath?" —Greht, Gathan warlord
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that." —Taani, berserker of Etlan
Chaos does not choose its enemies.
Innistrad pyromancers find their best raw materials in the fury of the dead.
After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers.
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
Barbarians equate courage with the ability to endure pain.
It's not just the wind. It's not all in your head. And it's definitely something to worry about.
"Well, how could I know they'd explode?" —Gregel, township militia
"Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!"
"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme." —Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"There's no heron in the moon! It's a shrew, a five-legged shrew, with a voice like whispering thunder!"
"Her voice is disaster, painful and final." —Matoc, lavamancer
"The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits." —Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer
Its fiery paws make it easy to track, which is very useful when you want to go in exactly the opposite direction.
"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end.
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul.
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it." —Sorin Markov
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body.
"I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me." —Sorin Markov
Many who cross Sorin's path come down with a sudden and fatal case of being-in-the-way-of-a-millennia-old-vampire.
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder." —Knight-Captain Wyhorn
"All your steel won't protect you if your will is weak."
"Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?" —Cabal grave robber
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
After his death, the general was reunited with fallen soldiers from over thirty of his campaigns.
"Ghoulcallers trying to get in, geists trying to get out . . . . This duty is never dull."
The most genteel facades hide the most abominable desires.
"You may enter the city—once the toll is paid."
The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within.
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi." —Expedition journal entry
The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
"My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on." -Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance
"Justice isn't done until undeath is undone."
"I fear that as we scurry after phantoms, the Dimir pull nine puppet strings." —Ral Zarek
Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy.
"Roots, ruins, and room to fight. All the comforts of home." —Domri Rade
Enter and comprehend the perfection of orchestrated life.
Burning fervor and fearsome skill create a lethal beauty terrible to behold.
Enter to find wealth, security, and eternal life . . . for just a small price up front.
Enter and leave the shackles of society behind.
Judgment without hope.
Enter and become a mastermind of spies, lies, and deception.
Uncharted depths. Unbounded hopes. Unfathomable mysteries.
Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries.
"If bats are the only thing between me and a mountain of Orzhov coins, then I'm about to be a very rich thief."
Any meeting between guilds requires proper equipment.
"It no longer surprises me what shows up in our raid of a Rakdos revue." —Janik Bara, Wojek captain
To understand Ravnica, one must first understand how each guild contributes to its stability.
You only need to wield it once to appreciate the power of control.
"You've got to keep your wits about you on the roofs. Not all stones are compliant handholds." —Iveta, rooftop runner
It's easy to believe you're a god when you're twice as powerful as everyone else.
As perilous and unpredictable as the wilds themselves.
A key that slips through every lock.
"If only our jails were as secure." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
"Aurelia seems too eager to solve her problems by delivering them to oblivion." —Prime Speaker Zegana
"This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust." —Nikya of the Old Ways
"All the coins in Ravnica can't save his soul now." —Narbulg Nine Fingers
When giant sinkholes opened across Ravnica, they revealed buried oceans and the merfolk, once thought to be extinct.
"The fine print of countless contracts has ensured we are never defenseless." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"Remember by whose gift you ascend." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"The hussars can't catch him, and he evades our traps with ease. I fear he walks unseen even in the halls of New Prahv." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
"Ask the right questions in the right way and truth is inevitable." —Lazav
Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans.
"Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him." —Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
"It's all right if you change your mind. There's always a chance we can rearrange parts later." —Zija, Simic mutationist
"A regression to ancient forms? A glimpse of future evolutions? Or a fleeting alteration of the present?" —Vorel of the Hull Clade
The foyer is littered with the coins it demands but can no longer hold.
Archers from the Horizon Military Academy hone their skills by targeting pickpockets blocks away.
Gurley was the first to domesticate one, though his widow didn't take much solace in that accomplishment.
Tired of Boros interference, the Rakdos unleashed hellraiser goblins, hoping their corpses would weigh down the halberds.
As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals.
Izzet-designed conductors atop Sunhome charge empty sets of armor that give form to the fluctuating elementals.
Millennium Platform, once a monument to peace, was quickly seized by the skyknights for its strategic aerial location.
"We measure our progress in heartbeats." —Prime Speaker Zegana
Gruul clanfolk obey few rules, but all feel bound to answer the call of the horn.
When the architects of Ravnica claim a structure will stand against a wurm, they never mention for how long.
The Orzhov hear the plans of the other guilds through the guilty thoughts of the disloyal.
Until more information could be gleaned about Niv-Mizzet's intentions, Lazav took every opportunity to stall his experiments.
Gruul shamans believe all sentient beings have the soul of savagery inside them, an animal form clawing to escape.
"My father was Gruul, but I chose the precision of the legion over the fury of the pack."
The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea.
"The Simic can grow anything out of a puddle of sludge. I just hope they never join forces with the Golgari." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
Dimir's best agents hide from death itself.
"I once saw the Obzedat moved to action. Since that day, I've been thankful that they're mainly lazy, and dead." —Aurelia, to Gideon Jura
"Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes."
"Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day." —Gideon Jura, to Aurelia
"Debt and death sound so similar, and thrulls are so hard of hearing. Mistakes are inevitable." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"While the sea may be our home, the sky is our destiny." —Prime Speaker Zegana
"All I require is faith, loyalty, obedience, trust, and complete and utter devotion."
"If the other guilds want a war, they should know we've been ready the whole time." —Ruric Thar, Ghor-Clan chieftain
"Not Gruul? Then die!" —Borborygmos
"Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing." —Narbulg Nine Fingers
"The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?" —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
"Izzet contraptions pollute our lands. Burn them down, kill the makers, cleanse the earth." —Nedja, Gruul shaman
"They think they tamed him, but he will always be a wild titan, a force of nature." —Nedja, Gruul shaman
Firemane Nevena led the victorious assault on the Barbu Rooftop rebels. Now the Gateless have marked her for death.
"The contract specified an appendage for a missed payment. Read the fine print: the head is an appendage."
Cautious not to repeat Vig's mistakes, the Simic fuse life essences using magic alone. Each result is called a krasis.
"Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits." —Sign outside Dinrova Building
"Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to." —Lazav
"Your life serves a higher purpose now: ensuring the continuation of my own."
"Practice compassion and mercy. But know when they must end." —Aurelia
He tired of his fellow researchers and their useless prattling, so he decided to make a network of scholars with whom he could carry a conversation.
Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war.
Alms-coins are only redeemable at Orzhov businesses.
In Ravnica, there are maladies far more difficult to treat than death.
"The Gruul embrace all things poisonous and living in the cracks of society." —Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov
"The drakes are practice. We may one day need to bring down a sky swallower, or maybe even Rakdos himself." —Korun Nar, Rubblebelt hunter
Cartographers on Ravnica chart not just the horizontal, but also the vertical.
The Orzhov clergy would never cross its path, but sending thrull couriers to do so is cheap and entertaining.
"They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist." —Nikya of the Old Ways
While Lazav schemed and Niv-Mizzet researched, Trostani sought the future in the whispers of the past.
"The only roads I wish to see are those beaten flat by wild hooves."
"Behold nature's answer to the problem of society." —Nikya of the Old Ways
"Other guilds say the Gruul are savages, no better than the beasts we live with. I say we've found friends who won't stab us in the back." —Domri Rade
"And if you threaten me again, your shiny steel trousers will be sprouting daggerthorn vines." —Iveta, rooftop runner
"We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt."
"Woodlands and laws. Both grow faster than the Azorius's ability to manage them." —Suniel the Woodwise
"The Izzet may incite war, but my duty is here. I will not abandon the wild."
"To a creature like that, we must seem like, well, bugs." —Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
"We're planting the seeds of change. Sometimes, we plant them in people." —Vorel of the Hull Clade
"Selesnya thinks nature is a pretty plaything. True nature would rip their faces off and wear their skins as trophies."
The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes.
"Our fight is not about territory or revenge. It is about freedom, plain and simple." —Ruric Thar, Ghor-Clan chieftain
Even the bitterest enemies of the Burning-Tree Clan respect the strength of Borborygmos's rule.
"Eh, needs more toad." —Gulistan, Simic biomancer
If no opponent can be found, ogres of the Bolrac Clan will often pick fights with buildings.
Before Aurelia denounced Niv-Mizzet, the two guilds had collaborated on the Warmind Initiative in pursuit of the ultimate soldier.
The Slizt Clan's battle cry is an impressive display of fury, defiance, and spit.
"Nothing ruins a party like one of those big killjoys bursting through the door and setting all the guests free." —Ruba, Rakdos cultist
"Sometimes I stroll along Tin Street and watch citizens busy with their daily lives. It reminds me why I do my job." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
The Gruul holiday of Rauck-Chauv always ends the same way.
The lawmage's argument was clever and well reasoned, but Blunk's response proved irrefutable.
"These Gruul skin-runes—discern whether their patterns evoke streets, leylines, or both. You have four days." —Niv-Mizzet, to his assistant
"Borborygmos's elemental launched an assault, but the Izzet wards held and experiments continue." —Skyknight report on the Rubblebelt
As Ravnica's wilds expanded, even advocates for nature had to confront fiercer natural threats.
Scream: muffled. Pockets: emptied. Neck function: never the same again.
"The Boros lack vision. Give them a convenient scapegoat and they'll be blind to the true threats." —Lazav
Everyone roots for the little guy, but nobody bets on him.
The larger the crowd, the harder it is for them to run away.
"I see countless worlds. What makes them think I can't find them in just one?" —Ral Zarek
Don't let him lead the soldiers, but by all means let him lead the way.
"At least the Gateless rebels have ideals. Rakdos just mocks, defiles, and kills all we hold dear." —Libuse, Boros sergeant
After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot.
The flaming fist of Boros holds the promise of both protection and destruction in its grasp.
The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly.
As the path he sought came into focus, Niv-Mizzet took steps to prevent others from approaching it.
"The old gods awoke and sent fingers of fire to see what was left of the old ways under the endless city." —Daiva, Gruul storyteller
"Subtlety is for lawmages and spies."
Each day uncertainty and rumors spread, and each night attendance at the Juri Revue increases.
Even the lost and undead need a protector.
"Scandal and slander are never welcome news. That's why I'm never the messenger."
The hunger of a vampire and the subtlety of a tax collector.
Even the darkest corners of Ravnica still lie in the shadow of the Church.
"The skies used to be my refuge, a place of peace away from the chaos below. Now, with every flight, death seems to follow me like a shadow." —Writings of Cica, Skyjek scout
"Merciless to the point of psychosis. Let's give him a job." —Zelinas, Orzhov recruiter
"His tenement is filled with the most vile, disgusting vermin. It's infested with rats, too." —Branko One-Ear
A casual glance into a dark corner may be your last.
"Selesnya denied us tribute. Let's show them the error of their ways." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"Lesser minds can scarcely imagine such a marriage of necromancy and mind magic." —Strava, Dimir mage
Upon finding his warehouse infested, Gaven didn't know whether to get an exterminator or an exorcist.
"Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head." —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
Tireless and merciless, shades are harnessed as spies by the Dimir.
"I wish I could rewrite my every deed and kill you with my first breath instead of my last."
His twisted mind concluded that if he was what he ate, and he wanted to stay human, . . .
"It's cold in the grave, and the dead crave your warmth. Who are you to deny them?" —Strava, Dimir mage
There are laws against it, but the dead have no one to complain to and the living are too frightened to investigate.
"No one cares about pollution until they can see it." —Gurras, Golgari rot farmer
A screech in the night is all it takes for Orzhov debtors to clutch at their coin purses.
A true shortcut isn't a way other people don't know; it's a way other people can't go.
Fblthp had always hated crowds.
"Like water, mana will drain from an inferior vessel." —Jalan Tosk, Simic forcemage
Both Boros and Azorius scout the games in hopes of recruiting the finest athletes.
"Should your chosen emissary be able to fluctuate triharmonic pentodes, however unlikely, I shall shunt excess negavolt radicals."
Sapphire drakes can communicate over great distances, their calls resonating in the gems fixed in their skulls.
"I offer you wisdom untainted by false loyalty, learning free of any guild's agenda."
There is not a single inch of Ravnica that hasn't been altered at one point or another to fit someone's whims.
"We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome." —Speaker Trifon
They can map both the cityscape and the minds of its architects.
"Well, if that goblin didn't want his tongue pierced, he shouldn't have stuck it out at me."
"Is the maze itself a phantom? Or is one as real as the other? Perhaps I am as mad as the dragon." —Jace Beleren, journal
"This one opens the grate outside Zelzo Base. This one is for Ismeri Library. This one is for an invisible door . . . No, I've said too much."
"Work for the Dimir again? That depends. Tell me more about this maze."
"One tiny peg pulled from a single wagon wheel, and an entire district grinds to a halt." —Lazav
"Understand the Simic? That's about as easy as winning a staring contest with a homunculus." —Dars Gostok, Firefist captain
"Don't just have an idea—have all of them." —Niv-Mizzet
"Everyone in this city is choosing sides. I choose inside."
"You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms."
"The taming and consecration of these creatures is evidence of our faith." —Resimir, Zarichi Temple priest
"I hear that Boros is losing its angels to the Gateless Movement. I'm sure this comes as no surprise to you." —Teysa, to Lazav
"Entrance is free. Donations are required." —Notice outside Vizkopa Bank
"Sure, today of all days, he asked to borrow my boots!" —Darijo, Ivy Street ruffian
Izzet delved into the depths of Ravnica's past, and Selesnya followed without fear.
"In the name of peace, moderation, and decency—wipe them all out!"
Funded by the Azorius to keep current maps of the undercity, the Boros nav squads survey even the most unsavory areas.
"Every death has a web of consequences. Our job is to find the spider."
"We lost respect after the battle for Barbu Rooftop. Send the troops to mingle respectfully with the citizens." —Commander Yaszen of Boros
He can calculate interest to six decimal places even in the midst of a deadly duel.
"The guilds promise to provide safety. I prefer to make my own." —Briska, Ninth District freemage
"We grew up on these streets. We know them better than any Boros grunt from Zelzo."
"The Gateless have risen. The Ten shall fall." —Ninth District graffiti
"They are useful, but there's little satisfaction in supplication that throws itself under your heel." —Jozica, Orzhov enforcer
"You may not be able to pay. But you can still kneel." —Milana, Orzhov prelate
"The hard part isn't landing in the saddle. The hard part is leaping before you see it."
"The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both."
"First, you must fight among the rank and file. It is there I will discern your skills as a leader." —Aurelia, to Gideon Jura
"By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place."
"None may pass . . . for free."
"The Simic offer a prize to any biomancer who can breed a krasis to match a griffin in the air. It's never been claimed." —Libuse, Boros sergeant
"A keen mind wields an army as a deft hand wields a sword."
The Boros built a prison in the sky where Azorius statutes couldn't restrict their sense of justice.
"When you put all of yourself into an attack, without fear or hesitation, in that instant you may attain greatness." —Predak, Gateless freemage
"They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist." —Nikya of the Old Ways
Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."
"We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost."
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
Knowing the hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.
If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar-especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere." -Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts.
. . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.
"May you drink until you drown but never be sated." -Odila, witch of Morkrut
"We move because the earth does." -Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection."
"Truth is always a weapon in your enemies' hands." -Geth, Lord of the Vault
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?" -Chandra Nalaar
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." -Elspeth Tirel
It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions.
The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies.
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi." -Expedition journal entry
"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle." -Kessla, Sylvok shaman
"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection." -Sheoldred, Whispering One
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.
"You may enter the city-once the toll is paid."
"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough." -Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." -Oracle en-Vec
"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within." -Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
"We must all push through the pain to heal our world." -Ayli, Kamsa cleric
No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.
Meddling mages chant so loudly that no one can get a spell in edgewise.
"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?" -Jace Beleren
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead." -Razia
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.
The pits have their own form of mercy.
It teaches you to play dead.
"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."
Slain orochi warriors were buried with a tree sapling so they would become a part of the forest after death.
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.
Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs.
Funny how money and war travel so well together.
"Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more." -War blessing of Serra
"Time flows like a river. In Tolaria we practice the art of building dams." -Barrin, master wizard
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
It's raining rats and moggs.
He holds the keys to a tombful of incarcerated secrets.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.
"Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war." -William Shakespeare, Julius Caesar
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
"A wisp of life remains in the undergloom of Death: a visible form, though no heart beats within it." -Homer, The Iliad, trans. Fitzgerald
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately." -Henry David Thoreau, Walden
"They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out." -Ailheen, Speaker of the Council
"The chill, to him who breathed it, drew / Down with his blood, till all his heart was cold." -Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Idyls of the King
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really-just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics." -Juzba, Izzet tinker
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." -Scroll of Beginnings
"The specimen seems to be broken."
Root systems in Mwonvuli twist through currents of mana rather than soil.
"We decide who is worthy of our works." -Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
". . . The ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head . . . he sometimes passes along the Hollow, like a midnight blast . . ." -Washington Irving, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
It turns prey into predator.
Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
"Catch!"
"A well-trained force brings peace . . . which brings more time for training!"
Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
"Mold could catch you." -Suq'Ata insult
Otaria's last defense against the wave of chaos threatening to engulf it.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg." -Phage the Untouchable
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun-and its darkness radiated across Otaria.
Reach out and torch someone.
A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.
"Don't laugh. It works." -Yavimaya ranger
"I see more than others do because I know where to look." -Saprazzan vizier
The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
Raissa transformed herself into a vessel for the Watchword Codex, allowing the arcane lore to flow through her body.
To the Krark Clan, every artifact has a trigger and a barrel.
Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.
"We're going to need a bigger gate." -Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
Gaea needs no book to record every act.
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it." -Herman Melville, Moby Dick
"Except our own thoughts, there is nothing absolutely in our power." -Rene Descartes, Discourse on Method
It puts the "fur" in "fury."
"Peace hath her victories / No less renownd than war." -John Milton, "To the Lord General Cromwell"
"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place." -Ertai, wizard adept
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." -Zur the Enchanter
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip.
"Their appendages are sharper than our swords and quicker than our bows." —Hastric, Thunian scout
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
When nature calls, run.
"Show yourself, thief."
"There's nothing like the high seas to clear your head or escape pursuers."
"All of Ravnica's looking for you, Dack, from the Wojek on down." —Maytov
At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."
"I have seen entire civilizations rise and fall. You mortals are but dust to me." —Sorin Markov
By the year 208, Cao Cao commanded more than 1,000 experienced generals and a million infantry, cavalry, and naval troops.
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more." —Scroll of Beginnings
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you.
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart? —Kroshkar, Gruul shaman
Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to. —Lazav
Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.
It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor. —Barvisa, courtroom scribe
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail.
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
Some Golgari insects live for centuries-and they never stop growing.
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain." -Volux, disciple of Nin
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"Anybody want some . . . toast?" -Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
Her children are ever part of her.
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
Even after a false god tore the magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
First the insult, then the injury.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
In the gardens of the Conclave, order and beauty are the roots of power.
Crafted with genius, energized with madness.
Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all.
Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth.
Enter and indulge your darkest fantasies, for you may never pass this way again.
The best funeral shroud is the fabric of new life.
Enter those with the vision to create and the daring to release their creations.
A place to relax, if you have the proper permit.
Enter those who are starving and sick. You are welcome among the Swarm when the rest of Ravnica rejects you.
Where the dead serve as diversion, decor, and dessert.
Enter the Senate, the seat of justice and the foundation of Ravnican society.
It is rumored the Azorius paid an exorbitant sum to ensure its symbol would appear at the top.
The sweepers roam endlessly, scrubbing away the refuse—and anything else too slow or too clumsy to get out of their way.
A mark of unity when you want one; a fierce guardian when you need one.
The Rakdos use it for everything you can think of and plenty more than that.
The fearful want the procedure before a blood festival. The guilty seek it afterward.
Like a single ant, it only hints at the colony below.
Those without a guild signet often display a different form of protection.
Dimir mages put the lanterns to good use, creating shapeshifters and sleeper agents from mana foreign to them.
"The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law." —Isperia
For the Azorius, the opportunity to serve the law is too great an honor for death to interrupt.
"One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade." —Trostani
"It makes better use of Uncle Dragi's head than he ever did." —Pesha, retired blacksmith
"If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys."
Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing.
When it escaped, the experimenters hesitated. It would cause untold havoc, yet they wished to see it in action.
"It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor." —Barvisa, courtroom scribe
"We will grow an army large enough to withstand the Izzet's madness." —Trostani
Despite its enormous stature, it can fold itself into a tunnel with startling quickness, vanishing back into the undercity.
Many chemisters are oblivious to the innumerable machinations of their guild, instead focusing obsessively on creating the perfect weird.
"We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost."
Although Cryptwitch Merree vanished after a spat with Rakdos, her playthings lingered.
Azorius lawmages would like to outlaw the creation of weirds, but first they'd have to settle their long-standing debate on how to classify them.
"Preachers of freedom forget that conformity can be beautiful."
Unwelcome in Golgari colonies, he found his own dark place from which to represent the Swarm.
Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . .
"If this is thinking, I don't know what I was doing before."
Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
"Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order."
"Straight from the blood-drenched imagination of our illustrious parun!" —Nyoser, Gore-House ringleader
"Try not to look guilty. Or delicious." —Thorpe, street urchin
"We could never accept anyone with a face that pretty or a mind that sane." —Nyoser, Gore-House ringleader
"And would you care to explain why your satchel is radiating an aura of unstable energy?"
Insatiable, irresistible, and insane.
Don't cross a Devkarin elf unless you long for an early grave.
When one of the great guardians arises, it sweeps enemies aside like chaff yet takes care not to crush a single insect underfoot.
When Lord Rakdos stirred from his slumber, everyone else's nightmare began.
Ragemutts pull the chariots of the Butcher Clowns, a trio of wingless, zombified faeries formerly of the Izzet.
"Let all feel joy in pain." —Rakdos
He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying.
"The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome."
What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable."
He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo.
"The Izzet are searching for something. Discern what or die trying."
"I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica."
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive." —Niv-Mizzet
"You think no one is watching, you think you're smart enough to escape, and most foolish of all, you think no one cares." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
They share no bloodline, but a bond greater than family unites them. Such are the gifts of the Worldsoul.
"We can't control enemies who have no regard for their own survival." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure.
"Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity." —Jarad
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
"My ruling is final. Order is upheld. Justice is done."
"The other guilds will learn the hard way not to interfere with our investigations." —Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show.
"I never thought I'd be so glad to see two tons of beak and claws bearing down on me at the speed of an arrow." —Mirela, Azorius hussar
Bleak rumors reached Trostani's ears. She decreed that no one should travel alone.
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
Wolf riders hone their skills traversing the perilous rooftops, each dizzying step bringing elf and wolf closer together.
Senators of Azorius often hired agents to spy on the Selesnya. They were told to record every spore and root they saw, as each could become a deadly foe.
Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat.
Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace.
"The rules of logic and order have already made the choice for you." —Isperia
"Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!" —Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue
No one in the Conclave acts alone.
The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees.
"When they covered the world in city, all they did was give themselves nowhere to run."
The ruins of Old Prahv became a wildspace, although all birdsong was silenced by lingering Azorius magic.
It chases its airborne prey relentlessly, heedless to what it pulverizes beneath its hooves.
The Izzet's plans to exploit the undercity ran into a few stubborn obstacles.
"Give me enough refuse and mana and I will summon an ooze that can engulf all of Ravnica." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Raked by vertical spikes of glass and stone, Ravnica's vistas offer only a rare glimpse of the horizon.
Gruul warriors never need to be stirred to battle. They need only to be shown where the battle is.
The trouble started when a street urchin bet a goblin he could ride one until the clock on Shilbo's Tower struck thirteen.
The city is vast and perilous, but there are places where a weary traveler can feel very much at home.
"The Selesnya are gathering armies. Do you still believe they aren't preparing for war?" —Teysa, to Isperia
The furious citizens blamed the Simic for releasing it in their district. The Simic pointed out that rats were no longer a problem.
"The prohibition of unnecessary tossing of the citizenry by giants shall also extend to spontaneous giants." —Isperia's Edict, provision VII.789.2
Every inch of Ravnica is home to something.
"So many oppose us, but we are the reed that bends without breaking."
The Street Swarm is the labor class that drives the Golgari's endless cycle of life and death.
"We traffic in flesh, not souls. Still, it's a shame to let anything go to waste." —Cevraya, Golgari shaman
Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.
"In each of us is the strength of all of us." —Trostani
The farther they go from Vitu-Ghazi, the less willing the crowd is to part for them.
Magistrate Ludy agreed to designate land for the brushstriders only after several broken windows and dozens of missing blini-cakes.
"When the spires have burned and the cobblestones are dust, he will take his rightful place as king of the wilds." —Kirce, Axebane guardian
Only a worthy few are permitted within the sentient forest known as Axebane.
The silk of the archweavers adds structural integrity to otherwise unstable Izzet building sites.
In the towering trees of the Samok Stand and the predators that guard them, the might of the Ravnican wild has returned.
"You may call me a fool, selling this stuff on Orzhov turf. Well, you need to be a little reckless to survive."
Beauty is in the eye of the exploder.
The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself.
Joining the Worldsoul took years of study and meditation. Severing that connection took the snap of Rakdos's fingers.
Nothing was going to stop it—not the narrow alleys, not the Boros garrison, and certainly not the four-story Orzhov cathedral.
Goblins and architects seldom get along.
The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes.
Close finishes are settled by who can dismount and get to weapons first.
"The Izzet are an equation that turns lunacy into explosions." —Leonos, Azorius arbiter
"Watch the voltage. We don't need another charred, crashing viashino." —Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker
The smelting district is home to many who see the guilds as not for them.
It's easier to just aim at everything.
He wants to watch Ravnica burn, one soul at a time.
If the pig's blood drips on you, you're next on the chain.
You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads.
"Such boorish noise is what passes for subtlety among the Boros." —Vraska
Nothing evens the odds like a little lightning.
The most ancient streets take on a life of their own. A few have decided to move to nicer neighborhoods.
The star performer of the Juri Revue, his shows have fans and blood spilling into the street.
As the price of wood and coal rose, smiths found creative ways to keep their forges burning.
Novice shopkeeps spend hours deciding how best to display their wares. Veterans focus on portability.
"Smarter than death? Let's see you outsmart my mace, necromancer!"
"The most impressive performances can be done only once." —Mote, Rakdos madcap
If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay.
"Let him be an example to others who would default on their debts to us." —"The Cozen," Orzhov assassin
As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators.
"We follow it through its tunnels, and where it dies, we farm." —Mihas, spore druid
Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math.
It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss.
A gargoyle's voice reaches pitches that will shatter glass and warp bone.
There are some shadows that even the Dimir fear.
It took three years for it to occur to him to use the chain as a weapon, but once it did, he made up for lost time.
"Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot."
With no memories left to compare to his present situation, Andalum was finally content.
Life's too short to not do the things you love.
He'll point you to your death row seats.
When times are tough, the poor eat the rats. When times are tougher, the rats eat the poor.
"You just need the right incentive to fulfill my dreams."
Everyone knew the Dimir had done the damage. Everyone suspected the Izzet had hired them.
He's the unlife of the party.
The murderer faced justice in the Azorius courts, but his soul was set free on a technicality.
One of the many reasons why open-air markets close at dusk.
"Without a body, the soul is helpless to fight the terms of our contracts." —Somhaur, Orzhov pontiff
"The entire murder scene was covered in dripping, oozing slime. No need for a soothsayer to solve that one." —Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
When Selesnya missionaries moved into the Shanav Quarter, they faced scorn, ridicule, and ultimately martyrdom.
"He makes up his own laws, and that's dangerous to all who love peace and prosperity. Kill him on sight." —Mirela, Azorius hussar
The first motion put forth in the pristine Jelenn Column was for severe restrictions on the airspace around New Prahv.
"Patience, mage. Killing you now would be too easy."
The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name.
"I've dreamt of the future, Isperia. Danger is on the horizon. You must heed my warning."
"It will dodge your first arrow and flatten you before there's a second." —Alcarus, Selesnya archer
In the hands of the open-minded, a runewing quill writes wisdom of its own.
An elocutor forces criminals to confess to the laws they merely intended to break.
"Obviously, the Firemind's mission is worth more than a few goblins." —Pelener, chamberlain of Niv-Mizzet
"Day 31: I finally succeeded in my time reversal experiment! "Day 30: I might have a problem here." —Journal of the Prime Izmagnus
"To prevent action is to prevent transgression." —Azorius Arrester motto
As whispers and rumors increased, so did the demand for fail-safe barriers.
Many Tin Street shops display a sign on the door: "No cloaks allowed."
One piercing stare usually convinces thieves to go elsewhere.
"Civilization will subsume us unless we overwhelm it instead." —Speaker Zegana
The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster.
Information travels quickly through Ravnica's network of messengers and thought agents.
A bargain in Keyhole Downs is always too good to be true.
With the Izzet occupied elsewhere, many of their public works fell into disrepair.
"It is forbidden. Asking why is irrelevant." —Sergiu, Opal Lake magistrate
Weather is more predictable than the Izzet.
In water, it's as graceful as a dolphin. On land, it darts and jerks so unpredictably that few can ride it for long.
"Some cannot be saved as they are, but all can serve the Worldsoul." —Trostani
Some Ravnicans consider carrying a sword to be beneath them, preferring instead a tooth-and-claw escort.
"Having conviction is more important than being righteous." —Aurelia
"For each griffin wounded by an arrow, there's a corpse with a bow nearby." —Pel Javya, Wojek investigator
The Rakdos believe that all are eager to join their revels, even when told otherwise.
"Lady Wren is the one merchant in Keyhole Downs who isn't running a scam." —Mirela, Azorius hussar
Ravnicans still tell tales about the Battle of Sumala where four Selesnya sentries held off an entire clan of Gruul warriors.
Some corpses the Golgari cannot claim. Some souls the Orzhov cannot shackle.
"In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back."
After his death, the general was reunited with fallen soldiers from over thirty of his campaigns.
Refusing guild allegiances, she fights for those who can't protect themselves.
"The good of society matters much more than the inconvenience of a few." —Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar
Some souls are too damaged to be of use to the Orzhov.
His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny.
"What root and branch cannot reach, our winged friends will attend to." —Zunak, Selesnya strategist
Metal is scarce, smiths are pricey, and plate mail is heavy.
"A kick from its hooves is like a bolt of lightning. I'd know. I've been hit by both." —Rencz, Izzet chemister's aide
The Hauler's Collective wields great influence over the Ravnican merchant class. Without it, little moves in the city.
"Your potential to commit a crime warrants further investigation."
"You have the right to remain silent. Mostly because I tire of your excuses."
"Forgive the theft. Punish the deception." —Alcarus, Selesnya archer
"We will prove your guilt. We don't arrest the innocent, you know." —Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct
The Dimir agents watched from the shadows. "Eight hours, and I've yet to see him blink," Nefara hissed. "I suggest we find another way in."
Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy.
"Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive." —Niv-Mizzet
Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm.
Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts.
Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing.
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create." -Liliana Vess
Twilight falls. We rise. —Necropolis inscription
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire." —Halana of Ulvenwald
After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form.
"The living cannot understand the benefits of death." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them.
The demon's yoke is part leash, part noose.
Mercadians not wealthy enough to buy a tomb are thrown into a bog called "the Ghoul's Larder."
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
It eats and eats until the juiciest morsel it can find is itself.
Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity.
"Victory in the pits is almost as rewarding as the methods I use to achieve it."
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
Man's best fungus.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
It reacted to Naya's overabundant food supply by growing additional mouths.
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Devouring books is only the beginning. The librarian's next.
Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies." —Savra
Niv-Mizzet's genius and vanity reverberate throughout the mirrored halls of Nivix.
To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame.
Its host's final curse lies captured within.
"My brain hurts."
The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."
"This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free." —Dierk, geistmage
The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth.
Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges.
"But then . . . oh, but . . . which means . . . which would lead to . . . exactly!"
On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"Jund is a wounded world. Beware its searing blood spilling out onto the surface." —Rakka Mar
"I don't think so."
The mizzium-sphere array drove her mind deep into the thought field, where only the rarest motes of genius may be plucked.
He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
It chews open Mirrodin's husk and feeds on the outpouring of energy.
He's an oxymoron.
Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work.
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics." —Juzba, Izzet tinker
"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!" —Trivaz, Izzet mage
When asked how much power is required, Izzet mages always answer "more."
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
It is everywhere you've ever been.
"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse." —Lord Windgrace
Both forge and pyre.
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames.
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead. —Vec tomb inscription
2012 Legacy Championship Winner
2012 Vintage Championship Winner
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"There was no trace Of aught on that illumined face . . . ." -Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Phantom"
Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain." —Volux, disciple of Nin
It counts down your last few moments of sanity.
An invasion weapon of ages past, the glistening oil contained the blueprints of countless atrocities.
Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.
A true scribe devotes an entire lifetime to the creation of a single volume, a masterpiece as unique as its maker.
Over such beauty, wars are fought. With such power, wars are won.
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect." —Baron Sengir
Only a madman could create such a door. Only an imbecile would open it.
Most clocks measure time, but a few measure everything.
On the third night, the villagers destroyed their clocks. The sounds of whirring gears and chiming metal held only dread for them.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what." —Memorial inscription
"Nature can't be stopped. It rips and tears at Ravnica's tallest buildings to claim its place in the sun."
"I can call an army to my side in the blink of an eye. Best not blink."
"A long and difficult incision revealed that all vital organs are housed in the head, save for a long chain of stomachs, forty in all, leading from its throat to the end of the tail." —Mulak Ffar, Vastwood Biodiversity
The pup looked over the treetops, eyeing the man who just yesterday had kicked her. Suddenly, her hunger was infused with pure delight.
"The need for the pack is bred in their bones. Their true strength will not show itself for any other purpose." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"Always carry two spears." —Mokgar, Kalonian hunter
If a baloth isn't hungry, it's dead.
By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk.
Venom is nature's way of redressing the imbalance between weak and mighty.
"Your first reaction may be to stand very still and hope she didn't see you. Trust me, she did." —Endril, Kalonian naturalist
"They're easy enough to find. Question is, are you sure you want to find one?" —Juruk, Kalonian tracker
Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.
The forest can seem like a dense maze. Those who travel the canopy know otherwise.
"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"To the unskilled, it appears as blurred patches of distorted light. Few have seen its true form." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
"It is the fate of the weak to fall." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"The more dangerous, the better."
"Let all we have buried be buried forever." —Seton, centaur druid
"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"Saprolings need only a host to feed upon. Numbers will take care of the rest." —Ghave, Guru of Spores
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else." —Lord Hilneth
Through the smoke and flames it hunts, sniffing out the panicked and confused.
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
Even dragons fear its silken strands.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind." —Ramal, sage of Westgate
"When we fail to see the beauty in every tree, we are no better than humans." —Saelia, elvish scout
"Planeswalking cannot be taught. Either you see the doors or you do not." —Nissa Revane
A beetle on your shoulder —Elvish expression meaning "a blessing of luck"
"The forest will surround you with its life if you are still and calm."
Even the smallest spark may set a world ablaze.
No guts, no glory.
Mercy is for those who keep their distance.
The mountains bend to no one.
"The mountain's fire surges beneath your feet, demanding release. Can you not feel it?"
"If it wasn't a blackened, stinking, melted abomination before, it certainly is now." —Koth of the Hammer
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
Devils redecorate every room with fire.
"Looks like that wasn't darksteel after all." —Koth of the Hammer
Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice.
To a goblin, value is based on the four S's: shiny, stabby, smelly, and super smelly.
"Not bad, but I can think of a better use for that."
His mind knows no fear, registering only the burning impulse to destroy.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Nicol Bolas gives power to those who will abuse it most.
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
"Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?" —Nicol Bolas
Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing.
"He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions." —Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar
"Rage is a dangerous weapon. Your enemies will try to use your anger against you. Use it against them first." —Ajani Goldmane
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear." —Gaddock Teeg
Somehow goblins found a tactical advantage by sending a clown to war.
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"You're in luck. I brought enough to share." —Chandra Nalaar
"When a phoenix nests in a volcano, we rejoice, for it means a hundred years of war." —Golmak, Keldon warlord
"Fire set free is a fearsome force—destructive, merciless, always hungry. Given direction, it is much worse." —Jeflin, Vastwood shaman
"We won't sit like lazy gob-slugs waiting for death to come to us. We'll bring death, shiny sharp, to our enemies." —Krenko, mob boss
"Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth." —Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer
"'Utterly' is my favorite way to destroy something." —Chandra Nalaar
Measure once, cut twice.
"I asked if they wanted to do things the easy way. I meant easy for me."
"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side." "Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?" "Yes." "So shouldn't we—" "No."
Those who dare stand in its path are either brave or mindless. Or in the case of goblins, both.
"Guaranteed to leave your enemies sufficiently stabbed, bitten, cleaved, or exploded." —Grezkrick's Emporium motto
"Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
"Your pathetic ideas lie in shambles, Planeswalker. Where is your arrogant pride now?" —Nicol Bolas
"Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"'Here lies our beloved Gartu, the gentlest of all men.' Ooh, I love irony." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
Liliana's voice carries far, reaching beyond the cold pall of death.
"Your life will set with the sun."
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
"My cause is power, and at the altar of power I will gladly forfeit my soul."
"For my enemies, one death. For my allies, many." —Liliana Vess
Devouring books is only the beginning. The librarian's next.
Though the executioner did not speak, the villagers got the message.
"It's only torture if you're strong enough to survive. Otherwise, it's a simple, gruesome death. I'm happy with either outcome." —Liliana Vess
"What a pity. You should have written it down." —Liliana Vess
"My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it." —Sorin Markov
"Your laws, like your bones, were made to be broken."
He always drops a little trinket into the bay as thanks to the merfolk who taught him all his best tricks.
Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless.
"Life's essence is a nectar unlike any I tasted when I lived as a mortal." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
"I deal so often in rotting corpses that when I come across the freshly dead . . . why, it's like my birthday come early." —Nevinyrral, necromancer
"Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources."
"There are some secrets so dark no human mind should ever contain them. Interested?" —Nefarox, Overlord of Grixis
When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled.
"Still alive? No matter. I'll leave you as a warning to others who would oppose me." —Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter
"You will fully understand fear when you discover it is the final thing you put your faith in." —Nicol Bolas
"What I need is your blood. What I don't need is your permission."
It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master.
"There is no greater folly than standing against me." —Nicol Bolas
A smaller cousin to the dragon, drakes are often seen at the side of powerful wizards who use them as airborne eyes and ears.
"It preys on other birds. And drakelings. And drakes. Pretty much anything that crosses its flight path is fair game." —Amira, skycaptain of Thune
"Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow." —Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide
Now you see it, now you're gone.
"Don't get any ideas."
Not to be. That is the answer.
"Pathetic. You might as well have protected your treasures with a paper box and some string."
After Talrand conquered the depths of Shandalar, his ambitions drove him skyward, joined by servants whose drive and curiosity equaled his own.
"The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?"
Say hello to your new friend.
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious." —Garild, merfolk mage
The arcane academies along the coast were powerless to protect themselves from the brazen raiders of the Kapsho Seas.
"The best denials are simply that: a beginning and end unchanged, a dream with no memory."
"It's actually quite simple, but since you've only recently begun to walk upright, it may take some time to explain." —Jace Beleren, to Garruk Wildspeaker
"The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom." —Jace Beleren
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
"Your mind was a curious mix of madness and genius. I just took away the genius." —Jace Beleren
"The merfolk of the Pearl Trident have risen from the waves since the earliest days, at times allies to humans, other times enemies. Now their power is cresting again, and who can say which way the new tide will flow." —Kalis, Onean scholar
"Let the land dwellers know the coast is no longer the border between our realms. A new age of empire has begun."
A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.
In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon.
"What good is having all the right answers if you have them at all the wrong times?"
"Thirsty?" —Drunvalus, hydromancer
Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master.
"The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover." —Talrand, sky summoner
Small enough to penetrate the narrowest crack in a castle wall and numerous enough to hack apart a griffin.
"What you attempt to pull from the Æther, I can spread onto the wind." —Jace Beleren
"Barnacles are the sea's final defense." —Garild, merfolk mage
"The sky holds vast oceans. They are at your fingertips if you know how to call them." —Talrand, sky summoner
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"My one regret is that I have mastered an art that leaves its audience unable to applaud."
One face, two minds.
There is no loftier ambition than the pursuit of knowledge.
"Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them."
"One bite from that dog will send you to the healer's tent for days." —Watchmaster Finn of An Karras
"The sacred might of Thune thunders in my soul."
The falcon is the picture of nobility, maintaining a regal bearing even as it conducts the bloody business of war.
"Time is a vigilant tyrant, but there are those who have broken free of its gaze." —Laikas, Erunian monk
"In the wild, white fur like mine is an aberration. We lack natural camouflage, but the inability to hide encourages other strengths." —Ajani Goldmane
"Duty, honor, and valor are either in your heart or they are not. You will never know for certain until you are tested." —Ajani Goldmane
"Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me."
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
As she shepherds the faithful, the angel's radiance is a shield of salvation.
Rhoxes who live long enough to retire from war lend support with their extensive knowledge of combat injuries.
Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory.
"May starving fleas birth a thousand generations on your stubborn hide, cow!" —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan."
"I will uphold the law, and no manner of foe will stop me."
A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.
"No life is without meaning. No living thing is too small to be strong."
"Only by the bravery of those who put loyalty above glory is our home kept safe." —Elspeth Tirel
Approach in peace or not at all.
The drums of war stir the hearts of all who fight for righteousness.
"One's blade is only as sharp as one's conviction." —Ajani Goldmane
"I thought the wind was ushering me to my final destination, but it lifted me to my feet and I fought on." —Idrus, war priest of Thune
"Don't trust your eyes, for mages are skilled in deception. Trust only in your faith. It will wipe everything clean." —Lila, Erunian priest
"Guilty."
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
"We are Odric's sword. We strike without fear, for his mind has divined how our foe will be slain."
"Who among you has the courage to face certain death? Who will heed my call?" —Rayel Vanger, Firstblade of Thune
Eagles make fine mounts, but they're too proud to carry anyone for long.
When the meek charge into battle, courage becomes infectious.
"Only the bravest are worthy of our blessing."
"She rose above me, and in that moment Varrik the Bloody died and I was born." —Varrik the Just
"Ajani goes where he is needed most and in his name we keep his lands safe."
"I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain." —Volux, disciple of Nin
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!" —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"This is the price of being last in the food chain. We must keep our places of beauty hidden away instead of displayed for all to see." —Hildin, priest of Avacyn
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new.
The Thran learned to capture mana, but power inevitably escapes its bonds.
It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime.
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake.
Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another.
Krond, the personification of the dawn's light, lives to exact justice on his nemesis Vela.
The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.
A killing machine from birth.
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.
As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
A match for any army—even its own.
The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves.
Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing.
Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.
Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.
"Artifice has always stood upon nature's shoulders. Let us watch nature take a turn." —Freyalise
When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.
Nature doesn't walk.
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.
"Our unity unmasks your deceit."
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core.
On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach.
"Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce."
He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey.
In abandoned corners of Ravnica, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned.
"From in here, everything looks like dinner."
"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion." —Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges.
They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?" —Edra, merfolk sovereign
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.
Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.
About halfway to the target, Snukk vowed that he had been tricked for the last time.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.
Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom." —Spear-Tribe teaching
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing." —Liliana Vess
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid." —Lumi, goatherd
"I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough." —Ambassador Laquatus
Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground.
Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.
That the Tolarian mists parted for the drakes was warning enough to stay away.
"Yes, she is made of pure belief—but I hardly see why that makes her unique." —Reith, master illusionist
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
"Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them." —Miotri, auratouched mage
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings." —Josuri
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
When an order for griffin barding comes in, blacksmiths prepare their forges for months of exacting work. They know griffins always detect imperfections and never haggle.
Its courtyards are lit during every hour of the day so that night may never fall within its walls.
A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits.
Persecuted alchemists fled deep into Kessig's wilds, seeking solitude to continue their ghoulish craft.
Wars are not fought on a single front.
To a demon there is no such thing as restraint.
Words no eyes should see, telling of things no sane mind could fathom.
Words to bless the eye that reads them, telling of a future beyond the reach of fear.
"Any fool can open it. But it takes a genius to decipher the blank pages." —Kordel the Cryptic
"Finally, the principles of corpse animation applied to bloodless materials!" —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"Drain the victim's blood, sell the corpse, and use the soul on guard duty. No muss, no fuss, no problems." —Olivia Voldaren
"Tomorrow wears yesterday's face." —Kordel the Cryptic
Forged from the rubble of the Helvault.
Forged in dark hours from the flame that would not die.
"Faith can quicken the stones themselves with life." —Writings of Mikaeus
Great devotion yields great reward.
"I wonder what dwelled in the primordial forests before humans existed." —Elder Rimheit
Released from a dark curse and bound to a higher calling.
The geists that dwell in the deep forests of Kessig are as untamable as the woods themselves.
"When civilization reaches out its greedy hand, take it off at the wrist." —Garruk Wildspeaker
Humans still feared wolves, though no connection between them and the curse of lycanthropy had ever been proved.
"Where'd the werewolves go? Maybe that got hungry." —Halana of Ulvenwald
"Peace will come to Innistrad, but only after all abominations have been dealt with, one by one."
"Rid me of this curse, witch, or die with me." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"Can you build a fire? Track a deer? Identify killer trees? Then you'll never survive Kessig without me."
Elmut had slaughtered vampires, slain werewolves, and destroyed hordes of zombies. Sadly, he never got over his fear of spiders.
It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon.
"You can face any danger when all of nature is on your side."
A hunter's precision and a durkvine's strength are a potent combination.
When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds.
With Avacyn's return, the flow of life became a tidal wave.
"I killed one and found bricks and bones in its belly. It had eaten a whole cottage, thatch and all." —Paulin, Somberwald trapper
The haunted blade shattered, and the geist drifted gratefully to the Blessed Sleep.
"The fiends have fled. Well, good riddance. Nothing I like more than an empty lair."
"By my power, werewolves shall become the wolfir, our allies in combat against darkness." —Avacyn's Cursemute Decree
"We've tracked Ludevic's monster across four provinces. When it lands, make sure it stays put." —Alena, trapper of Kessig, to Halana of Ulvenwald
The abandoned towns on the moors didn't stay empty for long.
"It used to eat us trappers. Now it follows us around like some kind of hound dog." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
After sampling many victims, the spider developed a preference for the undead and their accoutrements.
Its footsteps of today are the lakes of tomorrow.
In the darkest hours, some denied Avacyn. Now the Kessig wilds are their only haven.
"There's only one route from Kessig into Stensia. Unless you come with me."
It begins as a whisper and ends with the red roar of fire.
It's not any fun until someone loses an eye.
"To survive, we must embrace the savagery we knew in our race's infancy." —Edgar Markov
"My next aerial design will use less metal." —Hadaken, alchemist of Nephalia
The dark times left the peasantry ready to fight with whatever weapons were at hand.
He has nothing left but his resentment.
Demons massacre. Devils annoy.
Sometimes it's not for sustenance or to feed the dependence. Sometimes it's just to feel again.
Skirsdag cultists refused to quietly accept Avacyn's ascendancy.
"So the vampires like hot blood, do they? Let's see how they handle ours."
In a wave of spells called the Cursemute, Avacyn cleansed the world with divine fire.
Some tried cremating their dead to stop the ghoulcallers. But the dead returned, furious about their fate.
"May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion."
It descended on Estwald like a sudden storm. Moments later, only ashes and agony remained.
As peace returned to Thraben, some cathars made the mistake of letting down their guard.
"There's no heron in the moon! It's a shrew, a five-legged shrew, with a voice like whispering thunder!"
"Undead flesh is dry and papery. A single spark and 'poof.' No more ghoul."
Unhappy with the creation of the wolfir, Rorica broke with her order and led a crusade against the "reformed werewolves."
Discontent is a powerful weapon in the hands of a mob.
"That slowly decreasing pulse—that's the beat I waltz to."
"Fire will eventually destroy a zombie, but a fiery zombie destroys a lot of other things first." —Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"Well, how could I know they'd explode?" —Gregel, township militia
"I'll put my sword down only to die. And I don't plan on doing that today."
Hours after the Helvault opened, his powers returned twice as strong as before.
"To truly defeat a skaberen, you must destroy not the monster but the lab." —Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"C'mon friend, take a turn tossing the knucklebones. What've you got to lose?" —Tobias, trader of Erdwal
"A church is just wood and walls. A congregation is the faithful praising the angels." —Kolman, elder of Gatstaf
After the destruction of the Helvault, fearful mobs soon became fearless battalions.
Swifter than an angel, crueler than a demon, and relentless as a ghoul.
"Barbarians! They burned my favorite chair! We'll kill them all!" —Anje Falkenrath
Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave.
Heartless killer in life, brainless killer in death.
"I've seen corpses prettier than you, beastmage." —Liliana Vess
Vowing to free the souls of her children, Kastinne followed the tormentors into the ghastly network of caves below Stensia.
It rises with the fall of darkness, seeking souls to extinguish.
"Have you ever cornered a wounded vampire? That's a walk in the cathedral garden in comparison." —Tristen, Cathar Marshal
After the zombie attack, crops withered on the vine, and the thriving village became a ghost town almost overnight.
An undead snake doesn't bite in self-defense. It hungers as any zombie, never sated.
"His mind is feeble. Feed him to the bats."
"No matter how far we push into Stensia, undeath will always remain in these lands." —Terhold, archmage of Drunau
"Who am I to break up a family?" —Gisa the Mad
"I come looking for demons and I find a plane full of angels. I hate angels." —Liliana Vess
Even after Hanweir was saved, Gisa's lost ghouls would shamble through, still following the twisted orders of their imprisoned master.
"I have seen a hundred mortal families rise and fall. I shall outlast a thousand more." —Olivia Voldaren
"Damned crows and their endless squawking . . . blocks out the voices in my head . . ." —Hermit of Hanne Hall
"He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all." —Bishop Cawle of Elgaud
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"It's a cold, dark journey either way." —Eruth of Lambholt
He roams the streets of Havengul seeking the sick and delirious so that he may cure them of their lives.
The body dies in stages. First the skin, then the muscle. The brain is last, much to the victim's dismay.
Even as humans regained the upper hand, some still willingly traded their lives for a chance at immortality.
Captain Lewenheart uncovered evidence of a demon cult among the clergy. The Skirsdag never gave him a chance to prove his case.
Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds.
Half a brain rules the mindless.
The stairs lead down in both directions.
Subservience to greater power is the only law in the pit.
Which is the greater folly, summoning the demon or expecting gratitude from it?
Leukin stared at the smoldering angel feathers. "Run!" he screamed to his patrol. "We don't stand a chance!"
"Ah, this is a nice life. I can see why you were so desperate to keep it."
"I guess what they say is true. What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Or at least stranger." —Captain Eberhart
Those without breath can't complain.
Without a mind, it doesn't fear death. Without a soul, it doesn't mind killing.
"Which do you deserve, the heft of a femur or the graceful sharpness of a forearm? Decisions, decisions . . ." —Gisa the Mad
"Death not for survival but for vanity and pleasure? This is the decadence I sought to curb." —Sorin Markov
"Great art can never be created without great suffering."
"We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad." —Sorin Markov
Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest.
Time is a marvelous plaything.
The fear of slipping from the geist's tenuous grip overwhelmed Tolo's joy at his first flight.
"I see where you're going with that. I don't like it." —Dierk, geistmage
"The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"Don't look into its eyes. It's thinking things no dead thing should think." —Captain Eberhart
"Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion."
The student asks how a spell is begun. The master ponders what ends it.
"My drivers are trustworthy. I removed their tongues myself. Any other questions?"
For some creatures, existing is only a whim.
"When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in." —Sved, fisherman of Nephalia
"We have emerged triumphant from the darkness. Let our hard-won wisdom guide us to prosperity."
"I'm pleased this world has learned the moon affects more than the tides." —Tamiyo, the Moon Sage
It seeks a tomb that will hold it, a coffin that will give it rest.
"The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach." —Terhold, archmage of Drunau
An abomination so violent that the other fiends tremble at the sight of it.
"Ghouls smashed the door, but I heard the call of the gryffs and knew we were saved." —Ekka, shopkeeper of Hanweir
"Geists wish to make themselves known. I'm merely the vessel for their efforts."
Sometimes it's useful to take a break from existence.
"There's no such thing as 'impenetrable.'"
Angels and demons aren't the only ones listening to your prayers.
The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword.
The choices of the living will tether them in death.
Long thought to be extinct, flocks of gryffs reappeared with Avacyn's return.
Stray into the Morkrut and it may rise to claim you.
It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will.
One breath of the geist turns veins to rivers of ice and freezes hearts midbeat.
"I am no mere ship's captain. The north wind is my accomplice. The tide is my first mate."
Debates between wizards are never purely academic.
"I knew I'd find a use for all that newt spittle!"
Side effects may include foul odors, scalding steam, and spontaneous nonexistence.
"Cower, fiend. The night is yours no longer."
Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous.
"Once more into Devil's Breach, soldiers. I want another devil tail for my collection."
She parts the clouds so sunlight can reach even the darkest lairs and duskiest tombs.
"Monsters will no longer find safety under the mists of Morkrut!" —Bruna, Light of Alabaster
Inquisitors are taught scripture, philosophy, and the fine art of sharpening an axe.
Wails and whispers are the only weapons she has left.
"I cultivated my faith in Avacyn despite meager returns. Now my faith is repaid."
Avacyn's return did not rid him of his desire for revenge.
The finest maneuvers take place in three dimensions.
Her eyes see through the rotting flesh and glimpse a soul in agony, begging for the Blessed Sleep.
The Host sings of Avacyn's return without a single verse about its own suffering.
"One faith, but many hands in victory."
"I'd slog through a thousand swamps to help one soul find rest."
"You have done your best. I give you leave to rest."
"By Avacyn's decree, we shall cleanse these relics of their demonic past."
Gisela cornered the murderous demon among the graves of the dead villagers. "A fitting end," she murmured as she raised her sword.
Once vampires are disarmed, they're given wooden swords and forced to assist in the training of Midnight Duelists.
No longer the village pariah. No longer taunted and shamed. Sigrun was finally free.
"Wear her symbol with honor, a sign of faith upheld and honest deeds bravely done."
"Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn." —Elder Rimheit
"Evil will soon be vanquished. What Innistrad most needs now is healing."
Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad.
Grace is a gift, never a reward.
"Mix the mortar with holy wards, or blood will run in the streets." —Vadvar, Thraben stonewright
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
The sky rang with the cries of armored seraphs, and the darkness made a tactical retreat.
"The air stirred as if fanned by angels' wings, and the enemy was turned aside." —Tales of Ikarov the Voyager
"I understand your fears. I pity your doubts. I absolve you of both."
"Though Innistrad is not cleansed of evil, we finally have cause to rejoice."
"Justice isn't done until undeath is undone."
Loyal and passionate in battle, the Windseeker tribe roams the Green Lands near the Honeyed Sea.
Great devotion yields great reward.
"Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last.
www.MagicTheGathering.com
When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions.
Goblin lessons include the 2,071 tips for survival. Frek only remembered 2,070.
"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you." —Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
"From the clouds, you can see as far as the distant horizon. It's a reminder of the infinite possibilities of everyday life." —Noboru, master kitemaker
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.
Having charted their way up the difficult face, the two mountaineers had to contend with the mountain's decision to stand up.
"Fire. Air. Water. These elements spread, filling in the spaces they are not. But earth is implacable like a sullen child." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
It's viciously territorial, destroying every creature on the mountain it has chosen to consume.
"Quit pontificating, mage. The last thing we want to do is give it more hot air." —Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate
A typical day for a giant. A momentous event for a goat.
Heart of fire, blood of lava, teeth of stone.
He experiences every emotion with passion and repays every slight with vengeance.
"Cosi has many followers. Even the volcano finds a way to do his bidding." —Zakken, Enclave cleric
"Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape." —Koth of the Hammer
Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces.
"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability." —Maggath, Sardian elementalist
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
Do not judge a lizard by its size. —Ghitu proverb
It prefers a cooked meal, so it will eat you now and lava-bask later.
With one commanding word, the spell was put down and a fine collected for its casting.
Out of sight, into mind.
With one flap of her wings, the angel beat back the fires of war.
"If only an angel's wings could shelter us all." —Barrin, master wizard
"No half measures, no regrets. We'll tell no stories of this day. It will be as if it never existed at all." —Ganedor, loxodon mystic
Arrows are only one way to remove an enemy.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.
After Efrava was destroyed, the cat warriors scattered across Dominaria. Those who followed Jedit's example were strong enough to survive the ravages of apocalypse.
What the current doesn't take, they do.
Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.
The shapeshifter mimics with a twin's esteem and a mirror's cruelty.
Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.
It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.
"Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
A slith's form and function are determined by the color of the sun under which it's born.
"They won't see your shadow or hear your breath, but they will feel your blade."
I've learned how to disable wards, pick locks, and decode the Agaran language—all before even reading the scroll!
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
Woven from threads of the spirit world, the mistcloak rendered its wearer invisible, but quickly fell to tatters.
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
"For centuries my creation kept this world in balance. Now only her shadow remains." —Sorin Markov
A ghoulcaller's playground.
"I love what they've done with the place." —Liliana Vess
"Our world is vast, but Thraben is its heart. The cathedral must stand even if the hinterlands are lost." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"Steel in the heart, silver in the bow." —Wolfhunter's creed
"If you wind up in one of mine, you can be sure as silver it will be your last." —Grafdigger Wulmer
"No longer can we allow our human populations to be mindlessly slaughtered by ghouls. Slay all who trespass." —Runo Stromkirk
Fusing intelligence with the power of undeath requires inspiration of the darkest kind.
"Your blood is quite pleasing. A pity there's not enough for both of us."
Wracked and warped with anguish, it obsessively seeks out other souls to hoard within its eternal prison.
Dead or alive, true leaders can inspire an entire army.
Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill.
The Ulvenwald makes no allowances for youth. Today's newborn is either tomorrow's hunter or tomorrow's lunch.
Otto the Hunter was filled with many grand ambitions. The snake was filled only with Otto.
"If you think you've killed one, guess again." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
As their villages fell to werewolves, fleeing refugees discovered they too had remarkable survival instincts.
Out chasing bears —Kessig expression meaning "died in the woods"
Geists of the hanged often haunt the tree on which they died.
The Somberwald is her domain, and she has yet to hear an acceptable excuse for trespassing.
Its silk is highly prized, but then again, so is your life.
"Werewolves are an unholy mix of a predator's instinct and a human's hatred." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
In a world of monsters, it's the stuff of nightmares.
"Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire." —Halana of Ulvenwald
As the creatures of the night closed in on humanity, Innistrad's primeval forces stirred, as though waking to watch the slaughter.
It uproots entire fengrafs to add to its twisted frame.
Feeling abandoned by Avacyn, some Kessigers turned to the pagan rituals of their ancestors.
Cast out by his village, he now takes grim offense at refugees who seek shelter in his forest.
Silent as winter snow, it seeks wild places unspoiled by the walking dead.
"Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters and this dark plane is not big enough for you to hide." —Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess
"The wolves turned on us and a chill swept over me. The pack had a new leader." —Alena, trapper of Kessig
The skathul, spirits consumed by revenge, fester and seethe while looking for weak minds to assault.
Devils redecorate every room with fire.
"You must shatter the fetters of the past. Only then can you truly act." —Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
"Your fields will turn as black as a ghoul's tongue and fire shall be your only harvest." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
"The wolves of our valley are bred to detest the scent of ghouls. For centuries they have kept our estates clear of such carrion." —Olivia Voldaren
"Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences."
"Their hearts beat, their lungs draw breath, and they have one true form. I count them as allies of the living." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"What use is a stake or holy symbol in the hands of a coward?"
"Mortals practice swordplay for a few decades at best. How can they ever attain the exquisite mastery that eternity has to offer?"
"Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme." —Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors
Their language may be a cacophonous agglomeration of chittering snorts and mad barking, but the message they send is all too clear.
Devils infiltrated the lower levels of Thraben Cathedral, making cracks in load-bearing pillars and setting fire to precious archives.
Masters of the sword know the blade is not the only weapon at their disposal.
"I drink of those who are worthy of my palate. The rest I burn."
"Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!"
Savage vampires lurk in the Erdwal's network of passageways where prey is plentiful and easy to catch.
It is the demon's mark, an infernal claim on the flesh of the guilty.
Every now and then, a devil's prank can give you a good idea.
Succession is a matter of blood, and by blood it is often decided.
Being an alpha means proving it every full moon.
"There will come a day so dark you will pray for death. On that day your prayers will be answered." —Minaldra, the Vizag Atum
Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend.
He wields the full power of wrath unfettered by the sympathies of a soul.
"Is it true the evil that people do follows them into death? Let's find out." —Liliana Vess
Linger on death's door and risk being invited in.
"Let us remind these human cattle why they fear the shadows of this world." —Aldreg, Skirsdag cultist
Certain initiates into the Skirsdag cult take a vow of blindness, pledging obedience to none but demonkind.
It blindly marches on Thraben's gates, guided by its master's direful will.
The wreck hung on the jagged reef, each night disgorging more of its gruesome cargo.
"All the dead sleep lightly here, no matter how refined their beds may be." —Grafdigger Wulmer
"There are always fools who attempt to traverse Kruin Pass before sundown and every time they wind up in a race for their lives." —Old Rutstein
"The Blessed Sleep? Ha! Wake up my lovelies, there's work to be done!" —Gisa, ghoulcaller of Gavony
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create." —Liliana Vess
"Here are some bones for you to choke on, dear brother!" —Gisa, to Geralf
"There was a time when our cages rang with wailing. Now only a handful of these whimpering fools remain."
The faint smell of cloves, the rustling of the wind, and a paralyzing descent into an airless, fathomless tomb.
What could be more irresistible than death?
"May you drink until you drown but never be sated." —Odila, witch of Morkrut
Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams.
Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited.
"As you inject the viscus vitae into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears." —Stitcher Geralf
Wounds of the flesh are easy to heal. Wounds of the mind may never be undone.
"The veil between the living and the dead is so very thin that the whispers of the ancients can finally be heard." —Amalric of Midvast Hall
Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind.
Nothing's more valuable than perfect timing.
"Why do the dead remain among us? Where is Flight Alabaster to lead them home? Where is Avacyn?" —Eruth of Lambholt
"Keep one eye on the cliff road or you may fall to your death. Keep one eye on the sky or your death may fall on you." —Manfried Ulmach, Elgaud Master-at-Arms
A head is a needless encumbrance when muscle is all that's required.
"So many corpses, so little time."
"Beware the seagrafs just off the shore. These waters are filled with hungry geists looking for an easy meal." —Captain Eberhart
Even the House of Galan, who takes the most scholarly approach to the mystic traditions, has resorted to exploring more primitive methods in Avacyn's absence.
"Pathetic. Let me show you how it's done."
"Wait . . . did you fellows hear something?"
The skifsang, seafarers of Nephalia, craft spells like other sailors craft nets—making them strong enough to snare even the deadliest catch.
"I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
"Come, let me free you of the tyranny of thought."
Those who know the alleys and sewers of the Erdwal can disappear like smoke.
"Let them decry me for burning the dead. I'm not giving those ghoulcallers any more fuel for their madness."
"Swarms of the unhallowed claw at Thraben's gates! Do you still deny the end approaches?"
"Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde."
"Valor is a currency of the living that serves us well." —Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard
It patrols the grafs for miles around Thraben, ensuring that the unhallowed do not wake for long.
Cats prowl the corridors of Avacyn's churches in search of devils or signs of their mischief.
When angels despair, what hope can remain for mortals?
"May angels carry him into the Blessed Sleep with dreams of sunlit days and moonless nights." —Tomb inscription of Saint Raban
"I never had the nerve to open that bottle. I'll bet you're wishing right now you hadn't been so curious yourself." —Old Rutstein
"Not even a roaring fire could thaw the chill it put in my heart." —Vonn, geist-trapper
"When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored." —Olgard of the Skiltfolk
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
Some spirits mourn. Others terrorize.
"I wish my work could shelter everyone, yet I pray we are never so few that it does."
In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.
"It will take more than steel alone to purge this world of evil."
"I do believe your heresy will prove more difficult now that you have more pressing concerns." —Bishop Argust
"Grab an axe and defend the gate! Your despair is an extravagance we can ill afford." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"It may not look like much, but it's a good old door with strong wards. It'll hold." —Olgard of the Skiltfolk
"This is the light of Avacyn. Even in her absence she offers us hope." —Radulf, priest of Avacyn
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.
"Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create." —Liliana Vess
The draconic demon loomed over Dack, and he suddenly sensed he wasn't the only Planeswalker that Malfegor had encountered.
"You learn a lot in no time when you're about to get your neck snapped." —Dack Fayden
"Youth is wasted on the young. So I help myself to some of it from time to time." —Sifa Grent
Fayden didn't know if the giant had created the spehere's magic—only that he had to escape it to find Sifa.
Imbued in the Ancient Fang were spells far darker than any Dack Fayden would cast.
"Some call me a thief. I prefer to think of myself as a discreet borrower." —Dack Fayden, Planeswalker
"Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences."
"May you drink until you drown but never be sated." —Odila, witch of Morkrut
In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city.
"Your life will set with the sun."
Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on. —Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance
May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion.
Without the interfering hands of civilization, nature will always shape itself to its own needs.
The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death.
Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch.
If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere." —Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
We move because the earth does. —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
Truth is always a weapon in your enemies' hands. —Geth, Lord of the Vault
Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection.
It loves having family for dinner.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.
The Patriarch dreams of vile plague.
"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change." —Sitrik, birth priest
"You will learn to earn death." —Volrath
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
"Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war." —Dravin, Gruul deserter
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains." —Esper fable
No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
If the presence of evil were obvious, it wouldn't be nearly as dangerous.
Farmers cut the trees and buried their dead. The dead rose up and killed the farmers. The trees grew back and strangled the dead.
Skirsdag cultists meet behind a waterfall's curtain and plot with demonic forces.
The revelry ends when the supply of fresh ingenues runs dry.
"This is the price of being last in the food chain. We must keep our places of beauty hidden away instead of displayed for all to see." —Hildin, priest of Avacyn
"Some see a coastal disaster. I see a fully-stocked seagraf." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset.
Not every church is a place of faith.
In places where the sea meets the trees, it's easy to forget the darkness that rules most of Innistrad.
Deserted, but not uninhabited.
"The protective wards of the church have weakened, and no one can tell us why. It's time to look to our own defenses." —Gregel, militia leader
Where cathars learn to fight not only demons and vampires, but ignorance as well.
The rider set off into the eerie mist, swaddled in armor and laden with amulets.
Magical etchings turned a whittler's tool into a wolfhunter's weapon.
Not everyone can have a sword of blessed silver. Not everyone needs one, either.
As sharp as its bearer's words of faith.
Farmhands and priests mutter curses at the ragged thing; it unnerves more than just the crows.
It hides the face and protects the soul.
Nothing could break it but the fall.
Thanks to Havengul's thriving illegal market for corpses, the shovel that interred a body during the day is usually the same one digging it out at night.
The bell's chime heralds the rise of the unhallowed from the grave and the fall of their victims into the earth.
The rigs were outlawed except in Nephalia, where malign spirits are as plentiful as crazed inventors.
It comes off as easily as your own skin.
A child's porcelain doll went missing one night, as did a pair of kitchen shears and the town magistrate.
For the necro-alchemist, any puzzle can be solved with intelligence and harvested body parts.
As if anyone needed another reason to avoid dark, dank cellars.
Outside the safety of Thraben, there is little distinction between tool and weapon.
You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you.
Before you travel the woods of Kessig, first get permission from those who died trying.
"Whatever did this is near. Death reversion has not yet occurred. Be alert!"
The executioner's tree in Thraben Cathedral holds the power to absolve more than the souls of the hanged.
Visiting a shrine at the start of a journey makes the traveler more likely to finish it.
"Nobody's seen the Lady of Videns for years. Poor dear, no companions at all in that old castle." —Yonda of Gavony
Stensian vampires encourage spiders near their manors so they can rob the webs.
In the remote corners of Kessig, protection is found in secret powers unknown to the Church of Avacyn.
"You don't find many old werewolf hunters." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
"There will come a time when the only prey left will be each other." —Ulrich of Krallenhorde Pack
"Pick not the rotten fruit, but neither touch the best. Leave those as an offering for our unseen guests." —Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf
"Stone and thought fade into ruin. Only the wind in the leaves will endure." —Tomb inscription
The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles.
The border between life and death is as thin as a layer of topsoil.
In Gavony wishing is taken as a sign of weakness, yet the wells usually brim with silver.
Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core.
In the forest villages of Kessig, parents feed their children wormwood and other bitter herbs, hoping to make them less palatable to things that roam the night.
"They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns."
After werewolves slaughtered the citizenry of Hollowhenge, other creatures moved in.
"I would fear this fight, bloodsucker, were I alone."
Nature abhors a zombie.
Some lycanthropes wish they could abandon their weak human shapes and revel in the power of the wolf.
"Bury your dead deep. The boars are hungriest while the corpse is still warm." —Paulin, trapper of Somberwald
Wander too far into the wild and it may take you for its own.
Hopes and prayers can carry the same force as swords and torches.
Werewolf slayers don't know for certain how werewolves are created. So they kill all the wolves, just to be safe.
"Civilization is fertilizer." —Garruk Wildspeaker
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
"Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch."
"Living creatures seldom impress me. But I like this one." —Uta Falkenrath
Many peasants secretly admire vampires' glamour and elegance—until they witness a moment of pure bloodlust.
"I can make you dance to my tune like a puppet, your very blood eager to obey." —Olivia Voldaren
"A responsible king walks among his subjects."
"Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!"
Stensian villagers mourned the loss of human life. Thraben vampire slayers mourned the loss of living wood.
When demons open a path to your front door, it's time to move.
Devils are demons' unearthly desires made flesh. Let loose on the world, they satisfy their mad craving for destruction in a whirlwind of chaos.
"If you're not having fun, what's the point of living forever?"
"Some lament these haunted times, but I'm a geistflame-tank-half-full kind of person."
The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep.
Shiny polished silver can ward off many creatures, but it attracts others.
Vampires think of themselves as the indisputable nobility of Innistrad, able to do as they please. There are few who can prove them wrong.
"Don't be afraid when you hear the wolves howl. Be afraid when you don't hear them at all." —Saint Trogen, the Slayer
Few entrances lead to where demons and devils lurk. Unfortunately, they occasionally open new ones.
"Oh mighty Griselbrand, Scourge of the Heedless World, gladly I consume myself for thee!"
Corpses destroyed by fire form the most destructive geists.
Innistrad pyromancers find their best raw materials in the fury of the dead.
Those who only believe themselves infected with lycanthropy can be as dangerous as those who really are.
"The wolves no longer hunt just to feed. They kill for sport, or for some madness behind their eyes." —Elmut, crossway watcher
No slinking in the dark for them, no luring whispers. They claim their prey in the speed and glory of the hunt.
A devil's hands are never idle.
Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth.
"May your veins weep, and may every vampire take notice." —Stensian curse
When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill.
"Innocent thorns can fill the air with your bloodscent. Don't stray from the path." —Elmut, crossway watcher
"Do not flatter Fate. It did not guide you into my clutches tonight. That was all my doing."
Mist is the geists' sorrow. Wind is their pain. Fire is their vengeance.
While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff.
"Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
If it comes for you, die boldly or die swiftly—for die you will.
Its fiery paws make it easy to track, which is very useful when you want to go in exactly the opposite direction.
If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church.
"Is it hopeless? When wave upon wave of our dead return as mindless flesh-eaters to claw upon Thraben's walls? We're too busy cutting them down to indulge ourselves in such philosophical foppery." —Mikaeus, the Lunarch
Some have endured the horrors of Innistrad by becoming the worst monsters of all.
"Do not touch a drop. Not yet. I want to watch this so-called slayer's last crisis of faith." —Olivia Voldaren
He listens to every heartbeat, deciding which one of hundreds he will stop.
All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it.
Kidnappers caught in Havengul are given two choices: languish in prison or become rat catchers. The smart ones go to prison.
Marella was delighted. The ball had attracted so many suitors for her daughter, including that handsome stranger. She wondered where the two were now . . . .
"You'd best move along, human. Our palates are far less discerning than our master's."
"Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not."
"And then I realized we all have skeletons on the inside. Why wait until the bodies are dead to control them?" —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
Its venom sacs are long gone, but its crushing strength is somehow greater than ever.
"Avacyn has deserted you. I welcome your devotion in her stead."
Innistrad is a place where dreams invade the mind and mere shadows exact a terrible toll.
"Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage." —Hildin, priest of Avacyn
For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion.
As the chapel was dragged under, the bell in the tower rang until the murky depths forever silenced its toll.
Vampires of the Markov bloodline pride themselves on their exquisite taste in fashion, art, and "wine of the vein."
Lungs dried to parchment wheeze blasphemies within a cage of bleached bone.
"They won't be winning any beauty pageants, but they'll do the trick." —Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
She wanted to inspire terror wherever she went. The demons happily granted her wish.
"Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh." —Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
"The living are born small and weak. The dead rise ready to serve. The choice is obvious." —Gisa, ghoulcaller of Gavony
"I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey."
With Thraben's army recalled to its city walls, outlying villages were left to fend for themselves.
The demon Griselbrand dared to stand against Avacyn, earning him the loathing of thousands and the admiration of a few.
"At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs." —Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia
The crueler vampires' idea of free-range farming.
The first step to peace is to learn how to forget.
"May you and all your kin waste and wither until your clan is no more!"
It's not just the wind. It's not all in your head. And it's definitely something to worry about.
He relishes the devotion of his Skirsdag puppets and their belief that it will earn them immortality.
Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls.
"The demons don't care if we mutter niceties and act out ceremonies. Just kill him." —Bishop Volpaig, servant of Griselbrand
Death took his humanity but not his skill with the knife.
"Either I know just the spell I need, or I'm about to."
"Oglor create life, Oglor take it away. Oglor god! . . . until Master return."
"The best skaab are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts." —Stitcher Geralf
"The church looks down on binding spirits into armor, but now I can look down on them." —Dierk, geistmage
"Three heads, six arms, and some armor grafts are better than . . . the normal numbers of those things." —Stitcher Geralf
The same magic that lets geists pass through our realm can force them out of it.
They call it "stitcher's anesthesia," a spell to deaden the senses while the mad doctors begin their grisly work.
"The mist whispers to those who know it to be more than a mundane fog."
"What some call obsession, I call the quest for perfection."
"Let those idiot priests tremble! A new era in unlife begins here and now. Oglor, raise the lightning vane!" —Stitcher Geralf
Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying.
The heron is the symbol of the archangel Avacyn. The fact that such spirits still fly gives the church hope that its founder may one day return.
"It always amazes me what perfectly good things people throw away." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
The secrets she carried could have saved many lives, but they quietly drowned with her.
Bound to the square where she died, she calls out to those in danger—usually scaring them straight into the peril she warns of.
His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed.
"All that concerns me is the vampires' sense of smell and those freezing Nephalian nights."
"The panic is amusing, but the real fun comes when the spell passes and the villagers start looking for a scapegoat." —Ludevic, necro-alchemist
Whether he actually exists is in question, but the terror she feels is excruciatingly real.
Unbreakable and unappetizing, the crab grows uninterrupted, sometimes to the size of a cottage and beyond.
"This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free." —Dierk, geistmage
"Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting."
After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy.
"Surely you know the joy of the hunt, my furry friend. My kind of hunt just takes a different form than yours."
Six feet of earth muffled his cries.
Not content to nudge vases and chill drawing rooms, some geists muster spectral armies to claw at the hearts of the living.
On Innistrad, death is just a career change.
Literally made for battle.
"I'd rather take on a neckbiter or moonhowler any day. Oh well, looks like I'm going to end up parrying with empty air half the night." —Saint Trogen, the Slayer
"Priests, hunters, slayers—to arms! The enemy approaches!"
"To show geists pity is to prolong their agonies. Whether they know it or not, they seek the Blessed Sleep, and we are to give it to them." —Mikaeus, the Lunarch
"Who says werewolves are the only ones who can hunt as a pack?" —Kolman, elder of Gatstaf
"I've learned to trust my dogs' instincts. When they're calm, I'm calm. And when they get nervous, I get my crossbow." —Hinrik of House Cecani
Let moss grow over gargoyles —Gavony saying meaning "forget painful memories"
Never a word. Never a warning. Only the sound of hoofbeats along the crossways, and the screams of the avenged.
"As long as we can utter a prayer or lift a weapon, we have the power to fight back." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
Though the old holy wards and roadside shrines have begun to fail, faith in Avacyn still holds true power.
You don't want to see his trophy room.
"Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den." —Britta, midwife of Gatstaf
"If I fail to offer myself, we will surely be overrun. My fate would be the same."
"No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction." —Thalia, Knight-Cathar
"If you must go out at night, bring a mob." —Master of the Elgaud Cathars
Some priests speak in whispers of the Helvault, a silver prison of unpurged evils.
"Moonlight has a way of showing all things as they truly are—for better or for worse." —Zilla of Lambholt
"By the law of Avacyn, the following thoughts, words, and deeds are henceforth disallowed."
"My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger."
The path back to the world of the living is murky and bewildering. A geist may not even realize that it's terrifying its own loved ones.
"In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon."
"Ghoulcallers trying to get in, geists trying to get out . . . . This duty is never dull."
In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose.
The spirit cares nothing for the crimes or triumphs of the slain. It shelters all beneath its stormy cloak.
People only say "I'm sure it was nothing" when they're sure it was something.
"No matter how many I kill, there are always more to hunt. It makes me smile just to think about it."
"My greatest hope is that you will surpass me in every way, consigning my name to some forgotten corner of history."
He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was.
Survival of the purest.
"Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us." —Mikaeus, the Lunarch
Death has bound it with chains of past regrets. Forever it searches for atonement, each kindness removing a single link.
"I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me."
"What cannot be destroyed will be bound." —Oath of Avacyn
Moorlanders speak in awe of the priests' talent for arriving just in time to drive off the wicked things that prowl the ravished parish.
From mortal hope immortal power springs.
She endures without Avacyn but secretly asks each soul she guides if it has seen her.
"The darkness crawls with vampires and ghouls, but we are not without allies." —Mikaeus, the Lunarch
A devil's hands are never idle.
"You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes."
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
There is always a greater power.
Taste his power, hunger for his command.
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
"No fact escapes me. Why do you think you can?"
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
"So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?" —Eliza of the Keep
"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.
Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.
"The essence of every world, every spell, and every thought is power. Nothing else matters, because nothing else exists." —Nicol Bolas
"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
He's an oxymoron.
"Touched by moroii" —Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work.
Other guilds demand tolls from those who travel their territories, but not House Dimir. It takes its share secretly, one coin purse at a time.
There is no fondness between the hound and its master. There is only a common appreciation of the hunt.
"The toads of Urborg aren't fast, powerful, or pleasant, but they have their uses." —Ertai
Having lost their minds, they now want yours.
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
Their natural curiosity, combined with a knack for trespassing, makes sprites excellent spies.
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
"Retribution is best delivered by claws and rage, with both magnified." —Ajani
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization.
"May this grant you all the strength of the behemoths and none of their serenity." —Ajani
"When I meditate I see the world as it should be. All that does not fit, I remove." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Kithkin somnomancers enjoy the peaceful dreams wafting from their victims.
"Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer." —Ajani
"He hasn't returned to the Cloud Forest. But I can still sense his calming presence." —Zaliki of Naya
"We must hunt and kill the dragon before it can return to raze our ancient city."
There's only one thing worse than a hungry lion—many hungry lions.
Tel-Jilad's sworn protectors are the trolls, yet more fearsome protectors were created by the Tangle itself.
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered." "Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."
"I knew a creature carved from a dream of wild freedom. Any attempt to leash or exploit it failed, and at terrible cost." —Ashling
"I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it."
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers." —Jazal Goldmane
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons." —Jade creed
"Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered.
In Zendikar, today's grassland could be tomorrow's jungle, and hunting grounds change as quickly as the weather.
"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."
"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Apes can be gentle, contemplative beasts—but context is everything.
"My eyes are my strongest feature."
To save this plane, he must forsake all others.
"One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze."
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
Many sigils, one purpose.
The Soul of the World has returned.
It gathers against the coming storm.
Each of his twenty-two braids is bound with bone and leather from a foe.
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
Her leadership forged the Weatherlight's finest crew.
2011 Legacy Championship Winner
2011 Vintage Championship Winner
"If you think you are brave enough to walk the path of honor, follow me into the dragon's den."
History has buried its treasures deep.
Jevna Nor lugged it around, bragging of his triumph over the wurm. Luckily, the tavern regulars didn't notice it was only a baby tooth.
"If that is what you seek, try looking in craters." —Fodrus, mastersmith
"With this throne, unite your nation." —Throne inscription
The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today.
"With this scepter, smite your enemies." —Scepter inscription
It has to deliberate a moment on the best way to break your face.
Those who examine the amulet too closely have been known to become part of its ornate carvings.
Planeswalkers seek out great monuments throughout the Multiverse, knowing that their builders were unknowingly drawn by the convergence of mana in the area.
It's seen the wonders of entire worlds trapped in the depths of a bottomless ocean.
"To my sword I owe my glory, but to my shield I owe my life." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
The only blow that matters is the killing blow.
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect." —Baron Sengir
"If there is a fire that never ceases to burn, it surely lies in the maw of a dragon." —Sarkhan Vol
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
"With this crown, assert your authority." —Crown inscription
The angel represents divine perfection; even the smallest feather is imbued with beauty and benevolence.
Such loyalty can only be made.
The gorger's insect-like eyes pick up the slightest movement in any direction. Its body then whips toward its prey with startling speed, swallowing it in one engulfing gulp.
The pup looked over the treetops, eyeing the man who just yesterday had kicked her. Suddenly, her hunger was infused with pure delight.
The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger.
The quickest way to get through the jungle is to agitate a rhino and run in its wake.
"I raised my bow, and the wolf stared at me. Under its gaze, my finger would not release the string." —Aref the Hunter
The only honey it wants is the sweet nectar flowing through your veins.
"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
When nature calls, run.
"Let nothing own the skies but the wind." —Dejara, Giltwood druid
"When your cities and trinkets crumble, only nature will remain." —Garruk Wildspeaker
It makes the insignificant conspicuous, the repulsive alluring, and the deadly irresistible.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons." —Jade creed
"The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive." —Garruk Wildspeaker
Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.
"The forest is my cover and I hold it close. In such a tight embrace, there is no room for wickedness."
"The wild is always changing, but it does have a few constants." —Garruk Wildspeaker
It's hard enough to find your way through uncharted wilderness when you can see the tip of your nose.
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
All the trees of the forest are his army, and every leaf his shield.
What's scarier than one of every beast in the forest?
"Tell the cooks to prepare the fires. Tonight we feast!" —Tolar Wolfbrother, Krosan tracker
"When we fail to see the beauty in every tree, we are no better than humans." —Saelia, elvish scout
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world." —Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest
The rustling of leaves and a passing shadow are a dryad's only trace.
"Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!"
The foolish try to leap through the unlit spaces. The arrogant believe the fires harmless. The wise find a different door.
Sometimes an eruption in Shiv produces something more dangerous than a mere river of molten rock.
"You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!" —Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord
Blood is holy to those whose god is War.
It's rather embarrassing to end up with your head mounted over his hearth.
"The beauty of it is they never see it coming. Ever." —Razzix, sparkmage
Sometimes a little chaos is in order.
For every action, there is a swifter and more violent reaction.
It's fun. He doesn't need another reason.
"I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges." —Kamahl, pit fighter
"Oh, it's easy enough to kill, but I'm not going anywhere near it." —Norin the Wary
It can chop down a redwood in a single stroke. Your sternum isn't going to fare any better.
"Spontaneous combustion is a myth. If you burst into flame, someone wanted you to." —Chandra Nalaar
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff.
"The secret to our war paint is hot peppers and stinkbugs. Lots of stinkbugs." —Skab, goblin secretkeeper
"The best way over the mountain is through."
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin.
A rock between your eyes hurts. A burning rock between your eyes ruins your whole day.
"It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!"
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
"Careful. A drop of blood here means death for us all." —Kalek, mountain guide
About halfway to the target, Snukk vowed that he had been tricked for the last time.
He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath.
The mage breathed in life-giving air and breathed out death-bringing fire.
There's nothing more exciting than a game of fetch the still-beating heart.
"We wield the fires of rage. War is our blood and destruction our birthright." —Crimson creed
"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?" —Chandra Nalaar
Chandra never believed in using her "inside voice."
One thing's for sure—his fists are harder than your skull.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.
"Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
"Don't blame me. You're the one walking around with skin." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
Ghouls are often found skulking on the fringes of great battles, showing themselves only to snatch the wounded and weak, dragging their victims screaming into the shadows.
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
"How blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears, no dreads, to whom sleep is a blessing that comes nightly, and brings nothing but sweet dreams." —Bram Stoker, Dracula
"Cherish these last moments. Though your miserable life has come to nothing, I have given it a magnificent end."
"All your steel won't protect you if your will is weak."
Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
The litany of the infernal on his flesh pulses to the beating of his dark heart.
An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients.
"They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
"We wield death and darkness, powers that make lesser mages tremble in fear." —Onyx creed
"What do vermin cling to when all hope is lost?" —Sorin Markov
Not every thought is a good one.
"Seeing you cower before me is its own reward."
His grim ritual ushers the dead to their new life.
Death in form and function.
The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within.
It stalks the fens by the light of the full moon, gathering shadows as it floats among them.
"Of course I'm sure I've gone mad. The little man who crawled out of my eye was quite clear on this."
"Stop complaining. You can rest when you're dead. Oh—sorry." —Liliana Vess
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
Their arrival is heralded by the deafening hum of ten thousand wings. Their departure is marked by the silence of the dead.
"Let the final vision of doom be etched upon their unblinking eyes." —Zul Ashur, lich lord
When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled.
"You clerics brag about your strength of spirit, yet I take away the tiniest fragment, and you crumple like a rag doll." —Sorin Markov
Sins that would be too gruesome in the light of day are made more pleasing in the dark of night.
Every grave cradles a recruit.
"When you find yourself teetering on the edge of oblivion, mine will be the hands taking pleasure in giving you the final push." —Liliana Vess
The most genteel facades hide the most abominable desires.
A drop now is all he needs to find you later.
"The past is the foundation for all that exists in the present. We merely reconstruct what our ancestors have already discovered." —Sachimir, Sage of Memories
"It's nothing personal. I'd just prefer if you weren't." —Ashurel, voidmage
"Ribbit."
"Any oaf can conquer a kingdom. It takes true power to conquer time." —Shai Fusan, archmage
It's so light and fragile that it can glide where the air is thinnest.
"It's actually quite simple, but since you've only recently begun to walk upright, it may take some time to explain." —Jace Beleren, to Garruk Wildspeaker
Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
Its hunger and ire are no less for being wrought of lies and mist.
"You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all." —Pol Jamaar, illusionist
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
The creations of the hand are confined by reality. The creations of the mind know no such limits.
"Every primitive mind has a motive. Easy to find, and eminently exploitable." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"Don't you think if I saw a half-woman, half-fish with three glowing eyes, I'd have remembered?" —Drugo, town guard
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
Possession is ten-tenths of the law.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
"The dream does not end until I say so."
"Why fight over scraps of land when there's so much sky waiting to be claimed?"
"You should try to clear your mind of idle thoughts. And if you can't, I will."
"This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty."
Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master.
If you have to be stuck somewhere for a while, it's better to be stuck there with a friend.
"Those who claim to know the world in its entirety rarely have the requisite perspective." —Ulmarus the Wise
"Is cold merely the absence of heat, or a force unto itself? Would a display of its power help you decide?" —Zubarek, Icewinder Magus
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
Merfolk are best known for their subtle magic. But those who try to fight them in their own territory quickly realize that merfolk are hardly defenseless on the field of battle.
"Once he's got you, hold on. Fall from a drake and you'll suffer much worse than a bruise." —Garl, drake trainer
"We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived." —Azure creed
"It was too fast, even for our veteran archers. They might as well have been blowing it kisses." —Vulok, elvish archer
"The amphin have long built their society in secret. While surface dwellers squabbled over trivial borders, they patiently expanded, building their ammonite temple-caves. Now amphin priests eye the shore, and amphin hunters gird for war." —Gor Muldrak, Cryptohistories
She lures victims with promises of flesh, captures them in a net of deceit, and destroys them in the embrace of the sea.
"The universe is my instrument, and the song I play upon it is one you are forbidden to hear."
The gods are not always kind, but they do have a soft spot for plucky underdogs.
A blazing sun that never sets.
Its hooves touch the earth only when a hero must rise.
It did not escape the ambassador's notice that the sound of war drums could also marshal the city to attention.
The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil.
"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!" —General Avitora
Follow the light. In its absence, follow her.
A thin shell lies between the roc and a world of bite-sized treats.
"Any hotheaded cub can raise a sword in anger."
"There is a place deep within my soul where no foe can intrude and no tyrant can conquer." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
A griffin is not just an eagle's wings and a lion's claws. It is also the fiercest of hearts.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly." —Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
"Scholars seek to understand the way the world is. I wish to shape the world into what it should be."
The spoils of war are not measured only in gold and silver.
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
A dozen fighting for each other are worth a thousand fighting for themselves.
Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.
After fighting alongside the griffin riders, older knights of Thune learned to admire a mount that could rip an enemy to shreds in seconds.
"Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness."
"The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence."
"The good don't sit and wait for the evil to act. They prepare to defend. They prepare to punish."
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people.
Behind every mage is a trail of shattered lies.
"A world without evil? Boring. Give me vile fiends to smite and banish any day." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
"One day I will rest and join my comrades in the afterlife, but not while scum like you still sully this world."
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
"Griffins do not serve. They give freely to those they trust." —Amira, skycaptain of Thune
"When we of the Northern Verge claim a mount, no peasant's nag will do. It must be as strong as our virtue, and must join us of its own will." —Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge
In dark times, Truth bears a blade.
There are few things as satisfying as a good, healthy thunk.
Angels appear before both the blessed and the cursed, though most don't know which they are until they feel either the angel's kiss or her sword.
"We hold sacred the powers of light and life. Truth and honor are our greatest weapons." —Alabaster creed
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel." —Priest's teaching
Unfettered by allegiance, driven by war.
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye.
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"Let your heels point you home." —Ancient blessing
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction.
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, the Pretender
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
The Kalonian word for "ammunition" is the same as the word for "bait."
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.
It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that." —Taani, berserker of Etlan
"After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel." —Priest's teaching
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design." —Momir Vig
"One sigil awarded for valor, the other awarded for surviving Hellkite's Pass."
"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."
"Frozen, we watched the funnel pluck up three of the goats—pook! pook! pook!—before we ran for the wadi." —Travelogue of Najat
Unfettered by allegiance, driven by war.
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold." —Grensch, merrow cutthroat
It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.
"Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument."
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone." —Rakka Mar
The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm."
"I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below."
He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the Predator crashing into his stronghold."
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
"I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high."
"Nothing is truly your own. It is his, whether you know it or not." —The Seer's Parables
Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer.
Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye.
"Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance." —Sarkhan Vol
"We are many, yet one. We are separate in body, yet speak with a single voice. Join us in our chorus."
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
"Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?"
Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities.
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void." —Razia, Boros archangel
"Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could." —Karador, Ghost Chieftain
It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
"You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind." —Modruni, maro-sorcerer
The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
"Squall, gale, hurricane—it's all a matter of size . . . and price."
Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late.
In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste.
Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
Battered and beaten by years of salt and claw, he never ceased to walk, and to seed. Only now, in this time of rebirth, do his seeds take root.
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
"We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally." —Thrass, elder druid
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Saprolings add the three and the four to the "one-two punch."
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —Scroll of Beginnings
"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours." —Saidah, Joraga hunter
Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
"I knew that trick long before your great-grandmother's great-grandmother was born."
"Ruhan would never agree to such terms." —Ruhan of the Fomori
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
The correct answer to a barbarian's riddle is to choke on your cleverness and die.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"We have built a wall upon sand. The wall will vanish. The sand will remain." —Oracle en-Vec
The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
"Granted, it's the pinnacle of utter destructiveness. So what would you call two of them?" —Riku of Two Reflections
"Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once." —Matoc, lavamancer
"If you kids don't stop that racket, I'm turning this expedition around right now!"
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
Suddenly, Eldo felt very alone.
"Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty." —Razia, Boros archangel
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once." —Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
"Diplomacy has solved nothing. Only bloodspill can end this now. Call forth the warbringer." —Basandra, Battle Seraph
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock." —Scroll of Beginnings
"I grant you blades—on the condition that they are not pointed at me." —Damia, Sage of Stone
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me." —Xantcha, to Gix
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain.
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade.
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace. —Nantuko teaching
The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones.
When killing five just isn't enough.
Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
The scent of rot and vinegar fills the marsh, inviting boggarts from every warren to reunite and feast.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
Those who hear its roar perish. The lucky ones only feel its fetid breath.
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
"I will trade life for life with the insurgents. Our resources, unlike theirs, are limitless." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it." —Barrin, master wizard
"Soaring is wasted on the winged." —Edric, Spymaster of Trest
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
"Fair? At what point in our negotiations did you convince yourself my goal was to be fair?"
"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."
Fools surrender their sanity to his riddles. Even greater fools try to solve them.
"You aren't invited."
"Heel."
"You've failed Gerrard. You've failed the Legacy. You've failed yourself. I can do no more." —Volrath, to Karn
When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars.
Like pools of fog that hid treacherous rocks from sailors' eyes, so too were the hands of the kami.
"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail." —Lodus of the Ethersworn
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
To explorers, "point man" is a polite way of saying "gomazoa fodder."
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"Her voice is insight, piercing and true." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
"I see more than others do because I know where to look." —Saprazzan vizier
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless." —Akroma, angelic avenger
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi." —Expedition journal entry
"I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must." —Kaalia of the Vast
"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd." —Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor
"Our unity humbles our foes."
"Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other." —Tariel, Reckoner of Souls
She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy.
Perfect justice in service of a perfect will.
"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand." —Akroma, angelic avenger
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
"My family protects all families."
"We plant the seeds of doubt to harvest the crop of wisdom."
"Our lives are connected by divine law. The truth of this will be made evident in time." —Zedruu the Greathearted
"Ravnica, like a hedge, must be pruned, leaving only leaves of verdant uniformity." —Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men." —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
"Wishing upon only one star seems like a failure of imagination." —Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter
"Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light."
Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
"Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal.
Everything will find its use in Phyrexia. Eventually.
"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?" —Geth, keeper of the Vault
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
Even the dead are raw materials for the Phyrexian vision of perfection.
"Your life was meaningless, but your death will glorify Yawgmoth." —Tsabo Tavoc
"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change." —Sitrik, birth priest
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
"Meat and eggs. We eat!" —Borborygmos
Where nature impedes, Phyrexians overcome.
Phyrexia's spiral of consumption grows ever wider and darker.
They once sought to unite with the flame of transcendence. Now they seek only to extinguish the lights of others.
Its precious corpses dance like puppets to attract mindless nim prey.
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
"Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen." —Adaran, Tangle hunter
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death." —Phyrexian progress notes
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
A beacon in the night, a dream in the fog.
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless.
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.
"Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius." —Varil, Neurok partisan
Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror.
"Phyrexians can't corrupt what they can't get close enough to touch."
Some blades seek their own wielders.
Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.
The ultimate treasure is one that guards itself.
"Anything that watches without sleep and fights without fear is a valuable ally against the Phyrexians." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
A mirror to draw its eye, a rod to rouse its rage, and a sword to break its bonds.
A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver.
Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.
The myr are like quicksilver: malleable in function and adaptable in form.
Mephidross gives up treasure easily … as long as you take its place.
"An appropriately detailed model is indistinguishable from reality, and much easier to control."
"We lost our homes and our kin. We won't let those rotters take our future as well."
"We sculpt the land into what we need —homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from commanding the terrain." —Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.
She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
"So even the heart of our world has succumbed." —Koth of the Hammer
"The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond." —Elspeth's journal
"We thank the souleaters for surveilling our lives that we may be preserved from our own ignorance." —Drones' hymn of gratitude
"Phyrexia is certainly dangerous, but I have to admire some of its innovations." —Tezzeret
Without a foe to focus on, the machine priests had time to indulge in new sciences.
"Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"You have an unhealthy attachment to your selfhood. I can help you with that." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." —Elspeth Tirel
An invasion weapon of ages past, the glistening oil contained the blueprints of countless atrocities.
Two kinds of myr survive: the powerful and those that stay close by them.
The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia.
"Let go of your memories and be reborn." —Argent Etchings, plate 106, passage 27
If it possesses an ability to understand and appreciate life, it has never shown it.
"Attrition is the answer. Starve them, and let their despair be their undoing." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"We thank the souleaters for culling our sick so that the strong may earn their triumphs." —Drones' hymn of gratitude
"We thank the souleaters for melting the sinful that we may be reminded of our own insignificance." —Drones' hymn of gratitude
Originally created to harvest blinkmoths, the hovermyr are now the silent observers of a dying world.
Drawn by power, fueled by conquest.
Now etched only with the scars of phyresis.
"It's the last thing we can call our own." —Minhu, Mirran resistance
"We thank the souleaters for inscribing our souls with subservience, to reinforce the sacred order." —Drones' hymn of gratitude
With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance.
"As long as my hand holds a blade, there's hope for a pure Mirrodin once again."
"For every one that falls, ten shall rise. The revelation of New Phyrexia is at hand." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"In the midst of horror beyond imagining, I still see things that lift my heart." —Ezuri
To secure a place in Phyrexia's ranks, they hunted their surviving kin.
"We do not need beakers and vials to test our predators." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
Vorinclex had no grand plan. The oil did its own work, evolving creatures into worthy predators.
"Dead or alive, my creations are stronger than Jin-Gitaxias's septic minions." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"I wish I could take credit for it, but nature progresses on its own, just the way it should." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"Sympathy is for weaklings. Whoever survives, wins." —Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
Once a pariah, now Mirrodin's greatest hope.
A substantial portion of Vorinclex's forces became fuel for the rest.
"Our ancestors adapted to this world of metal. Just as they did, we will adapt to this world of evil."
"Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection."
"If it were fit to survive, it wouldn't have been so easily put down." —Glissa
A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death.
"Wipe Sheoldred's spies from the sky. She'll see the result of our vision soon enough." —Glissa
"Kill the weak so they can't drag the strong down to their level. This is true compassion." —Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might
The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the incompleat.
"I will carve my people's vengeance on the face of Phyrexia."
"The refugees look at these structures with hope. We must relieve them of this burden." —Juex, tormentor exarch
When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be."
"Tend the molten slag, or be the molten slag." —Urabrask's enforcer
It runs an endless circuit along the ruined roads of the soon-to-be-forgotten Mirran civilization.
"Seal the furnace vents. Admit no others. We'll tend our forges without their tainted ways." —Decree of Urabrask
"Squealstokers! Build me a glorious pile of Mirran metal. Then add yourselves to the pile." —Furnace boss, sector 11
"For the survival of our people, every conflict must now end in retreat." —Pythor, Mirran resistance
"They aren't helping the forges. Send them to the surface." —Furnace boss, sector 12
New Phyrexia is an engine that both consumes and creates malice.
Even in New Phyrexia, red mana sparks glimmers of individualism, passion, and freedom.
An apocalypse in dragon form.
"Down here, we have a more pointed version of the scriptures." —Urabrask's enforcer
"The mountains have been corrupted. Otherwise, they would not lend me their fire so easily." —Koth of the Hammer
Born of the core, and dying to stoke it.
"Large or small, all will toil for the Great Work." —Decree of Urabrask
Phyrexian or Mirran, most goblins stick to the job they know best.
From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
The nim have become roving killers marshaled by whichever thane holds tenuous leadership.
Sheoldred weaves every thread of information into a noose to hang her enemies.
After boring up through the crust of Mirrodin, it turned its expertise upon the surface dwellers.
"Behold blessed perfection." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
The feeble resistance of the flesh is over. Phyrexia spreads its shadow over all.
The first explosion that didn't excite goblins.
Even the small wounds let hope bleed out.
"Everyone should owe you something." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
"The Accorders would lament the transformation of their cherished lands, had they lived to see it." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
Phyrexia extended its command until there was nothing left to take.
"You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere." —Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
"Truth is always a weapon in your enemies' hands." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
"When terror outweighs all other thoughts, they will understand that I am the true Father of Machines." —Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane
"I am weak. Make . . . me . . . ideal."
"I despise Vorinclex and his slobberings about 'evolution.' Only I know true progress." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
"This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation." —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
Each monitor is given an eye for each spire it is to guard.
"I appreciate the depravity of noble designs turned to devious ends." —Tezzeret
"I tolerate Phyrexians because the dragon requires it. But I have no patience for uninvited guests." —Tezzeret
"Why infiltrate their strongholds when what we seek resides in such a poorly guarded safe?" —Malcator, Executor of Synthesis
"Your first mistake was thinking I would let you live long enough to make a second." —Sarnvax, Gitaxian sective
"It is not a goal, but a process—the process of creating the perfect Phyrexia."
"Interrogation is an unnecessary step for acquiring information." —Politus, Gitaxian morphologist
"My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on." —Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance
"It isn't for fighting. It's for when the fighting's gone bad." —Kara Vrist, Mirran resistance
"Flesh is a sickness that infects Phyrexia." —Avaricta, Gitaxian sective
"Urabrask may suspect our surveillance, but he cannot stop it." —Avaricta, Gitaxian sective
"Anything we can do to hurt the Phyrexian invaders is worth dying for."
"My world is corrupted beyond cleansing. I must prevent this from happening to other worlds." —Karn
Underling Ethu's 263rd report read simply "Yes, my lord. Overwhelmingly, my lord." This marked the end of the Mirran-Phyrexian War.
"That's no glint hawk. The skies have changed for the worse." —Ria Ivor, White Sun partisan
She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy.
When the Mirrans had fallen, Planeswalkers carried the burden of remembrance.
"My new design has lightweight plating specially cultivated from heretics' spare tissues." —Izathel, priest of the Annex
With Phyrexia's victory at hand, each sect began perfecting its vision.
"We are a single entity. Dissenters must be sutured into the Orthodoxy." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Just one drop of the glistening oil can eventually stain even a soul as stalwart as a loxodon's beyond redemption.
Mirrans were broken down and rebuilt, made to be loyal servants of the force they had fought.
"Skin is the prison of the blessed and the stronghold of the heretic." —Argent Etchings, plate 64, passage 17
Imprisonment teaches revenge. Hobbling teaches resignation.
"Your desires have become our discretion." —Izathel, priest of the Annex
"The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them."
"A display of humility is required of those who still possess such frailties." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion.
"We are Mirrodin's children. We will reclaim her—one scrap at a time, if we have to."
"Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate." —Elspeth Tirel
Even after a false god tore the magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"
When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
"Swords may sunder. Shields may fail. My will is stronger than steel, and my flesh and bone far more deadly."
"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you." —Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
If your flesh can withstand the flame, the spirit of the dragon will burn within your soul.
Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath.
"Kills and cooks your food in one easy stroke."
"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide." —Kumano, to his pupils
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
Sometimes primitive cultures attributed natural phenomena to monsters. Sometimes they were right.
A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.
In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts.
Like so many Thran relics, the wurm engine kept operating long after its creators were gone.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"My ears say it hisses. My fingers say it burns." —Auntie Wort
Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat.
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die." —Braids, dementia summoner
"The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours." —Onean sergeant
It hardly weighs anything, but it takes all day to remove.
"Tusks to splinter skulls. Steel to shatter scale." —Warhammer inscription
"For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty."
"You helped save my people from a Phyrexian fate. Did you think I wouldn't return the favor?" —Eladamri, to Gerrard
Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
"Fear this no more!"
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly." —Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."
"Just as the noble soul calls virtue to itself, the evil soul summons harm." —Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
Even when fate is already written, there's always time to change the names.
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
The knights are a major attraction at every Lammastide festival. Teams of riders perform daring feats of flight to the delight of all below.
"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies." —Raksha Golden Cub
"Course he ran! I wouldn't want to stare down that barrel, either!" —Alaborn soldier
Ambidexterity is common among kithkin. The thoughtweft links the minds of the left- and right-handed, giving each the knack of the other.
Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.
"If you think you are brave enough to walk the path of honor, follow me into the dragon's den."
"Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground." —Sidar Jabari
Knight-stewards guard the Sun-Dappled Court, a grove of immense, sculptured olive trees that represent Valeron's twelve noble families.
"He is part of a new breed of guardian, one who embraces the best of both his world and ours." —Mayael the Anima
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
"Hammer out your doubts as you forge your weapon. To slay a dragon, your resolve must be stronger than your steel."
The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead.
Both guide and guard on open plain.
"By tradition, we don't speak for two days after battle. If our deeds won't speak for themselves, what else could be said?"
"Your signet is no symbol of power. It marks only your need for numbers to aid you. What do you do, guild-rat, now that you face my blade alone?"
www.MagicTheGathering.com
"Phyrexians can't corrupt what they can't get close enough to touch."
"Vulshok flail, Viridian shield, loxodon blade . . . Tazzir, bring the Moriok hook and assemble the rookies." —Vy Covalt, Neurok agent
"A true Phyrexian predator. It will never know death, just as nature intended." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"It will be battle-ready before our strike at Oxid Ridge, and it will guarantee our victory." —Ketuc of the Helm
Partisan spies warned that no armor would protect the body from Phyrexian infection. Neurok strategists took that as a challenge.
It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions.
It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds.
"It's a beautiful vision. Discarded debris is reborn as a singular entity." —Urabrask the Hidden
Adapted to tread on razorgrass, the rhino proved adept at treading on Phyrexians as well.
"If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains." —Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.
Only the goblins could make a simple machine so complex.
"Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
Basic senses like sight and taste are reserved for those in power.
Where nature impedes, Phyrexians overcome.
"Our cause will ripen in the fertile flesh of the unworthy." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle." —Kessla, Sylvok shaman
Memnarch designed some myr to follow the levelers and reaffix lost parts. Mirran partisans put that instinct to good use.
For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence.
The faces of Geth's corpse-dredgers are disturbingly similar.
"Anything that watches without sleep and fights without fear is a valuable ally against the Phyrexians." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
"Our glorious infection has taken hold." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause." —Ezuri, renegade leader
Phyrexian smog clouds choked the skies, threatening creatures who couldn't comprehend the menace below.
"Such a creation serves no purpose other than exterminating every one of us." —Sadra Alic, Neurok strategist
Mycosynth grew unfettered beneath the black lacuna, metastasizing into a matrix of noxious energy.
"If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever." —Koth of the Hammer
"We will fight as they do: our flesh protected behind metal." —Tae Aquil, Viridian weaponsmith
"I admire it. Few pull off pluck and subservience at the same time." —Ezuri, renegade leader
The Mirran partisans created hundreds of patrol sentinels to divert Phyrexian assaults from the Tangle.
"Domination by the strongest—that is all that matters in the Tangle now." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
His crime was silence, and now he suffers it eternally.
The fiercest hunters in the Tangle don't seek out the mantises. They are the mantises.
Vorinclex removed its teeth so it wouldn't waste time chewing before moving to the next kill.
As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind.
Phyrexia's spiral of consumption grows ever wider and darker.
"Even a nuisance such as the pistus fly has a purpose in our new world." —Glissa
"Our land will not yield to Phyrexian corruption!"
Her warriors are the last defense against the coming storm.
As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales.
"So, the survivors from Oxid Ridge are on the move. Let them come and witness predation in its purest form." —Glissa
"The fangren fight without comfort of any kind. We can ask no less of ourselves." —Tilien, Sylvok partisan
"We will reveal the futility of their heresy by showing them how fragile their relics are." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"I never move the same way twice. Those rotters can't grasp chaos."
"As long as we have the will to fight, we are never without weapons." —Koth of the Hammer
"Drive them back! Make their underworld into their grave!" —Koth of the Hammer
He didn't have a word for "home," but he knew it was something to be defended.
"All will be reforged in the fires of glory." —Urabrask the Hidden
Being surrounded by goblins is less objectionable when they're fighting for you.
Koth sent partisans into the Tangle to bring survivors to the safe haven of the tunnels below Kuldotha.
"They believe they're driving us back, but we're leading them to their doom." —Kethek, furnace stoker
Its flight sets the sky itself on fire.
"A true warrior fights with whatever's handy." —Qerk of the Secret Warren
Mirran creatures that could withstand the Phyrexian oil found an abundance of crunchy snacks.
It chews open Mirrodin's husk and feeds on the outpouring of energy.
A golem's hands know no tenderness.
Shock one, awe the rest.
Flame doesn't kneel to Phyrexia.
A productive warren requires a good deal of prodding.
Sadly, the extent of Gerkk's healing knowledge was "don't pick at it."
Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal.
"The union of the oil and necrogen has produced many pleasing reactions." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Perfection is at hand. You have been freed of weakness and made compleat." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"The chest cavity is cleared of useless meat. I know just what to do with the space." —Gyed, Vault Priest
Even the dead are raw materials for the Phyrexian vision of perfection.
"Ours is a glorious transmission! Behold a future where all bow to the Father of Machines." —Isila, Priest of Sheoldred
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
At first, the Mirrans aimed for its exposed gut. The survivors quickly learned to do otherwise.
"Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
Phyrexians research with the grace of surgeons and the finesse of butchers.
"All plans begin as dreams. I intend to awaken them."
"Specimen 211 examination report. Observation: graft sublimation incomplete. Result: death. Prepare specimen 212."
"Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius." —Varil, Neurok partisan
"You are hopelessly obsolete, my brothers. Come and join the Great Work." —Rhmir, Hand of the Augur
A mirror to draw its eye, a rod to rouse its rage, and a sword to break its bonds.
The serum from the blinkmoths they gather greases the joints of witch engines.
"Phyrexians are tenacious. That's not the same thing as clever." —Tezzeret
"In its gaze I saw no mercy, no recognition that I was worthy to exist." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
"There's no more time for secluded study. Answers are there only for those with the courage to take them."
"They can't even comprehend nature. How could they improve it?" —Venser
Accurate information is a precious commodity in times of war.
"Your ideas will be discarded and your will repurposed."
"The fleeting shadows of his primitive self have all but vanished." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
"If left in the enemy's shape too long, it might be lost to them." —Vy Covalt, Neurok agent
Karn's creation is now his master.
Blessed by the hands of Jin-Gitaxias.
"The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it." —Pelyus, vedalken ordinar
After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage.
The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion.
A new bird of prey—one that hunts sentience.
"May our blessings sever the tongues of the forsaken." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues.
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies.
"This war is not about loxodon or leonin, Sylvok or Auriok. To defeat these rotters, we must do it together."
"The infection has spread farther than we could glimpse from the heights of Taj-Nar."
The squabble over succession was quickly replaced by the struggle to survive.
"Rid them of their unfaithful organs. Bring new hearts to the unbelievers." —Tome of Machines, verse 1703
"We will mourn when there is time. For now, we survive."
"The Phyrexians are vulnerable. Do not despair. We will prevail!" —Juryan, rebel leader
"Fall to your knees and welcome our embrace." —Qal-Sha, Priest of Norn
"Unworthy of consecration." —Axsh, lesser cenobite
"We lost our homes and our kin. We won't let those rotters take our future as well."
"I fight for the suns, the surface, and everything in between."
A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again.
"The tyrannous and bloody deed is done, The most arch deed of piteous massacre That ever yet this land was guilty of." -William Shakespeare, Richard III
These small but intelligent Dragons and their Olesian allies held back the tide of Pashalik Mons's hordes of Goblin Raiders. DragonCon 1994
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.
Artifact construction requires immense resources.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.
After Kroog was destroyed while most of its defenders were at his side, Urza vowed that none of his allies would ever need to fear for their own defense again, even while laying siege to a city far from their homes.
During the brothers' childhood, Tocasia took them to explore the sacred cave of Koilos. There, in the Hall of Tagsin, Mishra discovered the mysterious weakstone.
"Unearthly and invisible fibers emanate from this sphere, entangling all who draw near." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water.
When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.
Originally considered the work of Urza, this tablet was created by forgers seeking to imitate Urza's masterpieces.
Though Mishra was impressed by the staves Ashnod had created for Zegon's defense, he understood they only hinted at her full potential.
Slow and steady wins the race.
There was more malice in its button eyes than should have been possible in something that had never known life.
To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge.
Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops.
Nireya reached through the Gate, sensing the energies trapped beyond.
"Take this item, for instance. How would it destroy us, Relicbane?" —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ." —"Song of the Artificer"
The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
While exploring the sacred cave of Koilos with his brother Mishra and their master Tocasia, Urza fell behind in the Hall of Tagsin, where he discovered the remarkable Mightstone.
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"A blast, an echo . . . then silence."
For years scholars debated whether these were Urza's or Mishra's creations. Recent research suggests they were invented by the brothers' original master, Tocasia, and that both used these devices.
Viscerid dams may be of living creatures as well as bones and mud.
"That Rhino would fetch us a tidy sum, Joven. Perhaps it's time to make it ours." —Chandler
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning." —Sevti Mukul, The Fall of Alsoor
Buried under a thin layer of dirt, it was known for centuries as Mount Sardia.
"Until I came to the Floating Isle, I never had to oil the servants." —Baki, wizard attendant
Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.
"So great is its power, only the chosen can wield it and live." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Tawnos learned quickly from Urza that utter simplicity often led to wondrous, yet subtle utility.
Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing, greatly adding to the city's glory.
Al-abara simply laughed and lifted one finger, and the carpet carried her high out of our reach.
"Sacrilege! A noble ally in life, made nothing more than a glorified kite in death!" —Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it.
It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous.
"To-night the winds begin to rise . . . The rooks are blown about the skies . . . ." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, In Memoriam
While defending their southern borders, both the Wu and Shu kingdoms fought against the barbarians' trained elephants.
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.
The good news is it's vegetarian. The bad news is it just doesn't like you.
"Hear that? No? That's a cat warrior."
Busy as a bumblebee, blistered as a goblin. —Alaborn saying
No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two.
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
Lead, follow, or run like crazy.
They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves.
It's easy to stand head and shoulders over those with no backbone.
There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction?
"Four things that never meet do here unite To shed my blood and to ravage my heart, A radiant brow and tresses that beguile And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the Artifact Blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
Knives in the sky, cries in the air, and blood on the ground.
Silent as a serpent, twisted as a lone bog tree, evil as Tojira's heart.
"A minion given over to Tevesh Szat is a stronger minion gained." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"The warm rain of grease on my face immediately made it clear I had entered Phyrexia." —Jarsyl, Diary
Created to destroy Dominiaria, demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, water elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
Seafarers fear sailing off the world's edge not so much as down its gullet.
Energy is never lost, only transformed.
From time, knowledge. From knowledge, power.
". . . inviting the soul to wander for a spell in abysses of solitude . . . ." —Kate Chopin, The Awakening
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
"Curse Reveka, and curse her coddled conjurers. Their sorcerers' school shall yet be ours." —Irini Sengir
Of royal blood amongst the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
We asked Captain Soll what became of the Serafina, but all he said was, "Ships that go down shouldn't come back up."
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
"High in the Karplusans, death is swift and razor-clawed." —Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it.
"You idiots! Turn it around! Turn it around!"
When the cat flies and the bird stalks, guard your horses carefully.
"Serra, like Feroz, is long since dead. But remember, Daria: her spirit shall survive so long as the Homelands do." —Taysir
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
Bravery shines brightest in a pure soul.
"It is only fitting that one such as I should die in pursuit of knowledge." —Vervamon the Elder
"Where our potions and powders fail, perhaps nature will succeed." —Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples." —Gwendlyn Di Corci
"All this nonsense made by mages Rusts and crumbles through the ages." —Aline Corralurn, "Inheritance"
The flash of his lance projects the pure radiance of his honor.
"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end Of this new glorious world . . . ?'" —John Milton, Paradise Lost
Through years of study and training, the Blacksmiths of Argive became adept at reassembling the mangled remains of the strange, mechanical creatures abounding in their native land.
"I dedicate my body to my country And my life to my King." —Alaborn Soldier's Oath
Muskets gave the Alaborn army an advantage it had long lacked—air defense.
Death in form and function.
The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it.
While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff.
After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy.
"Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?" —Chandra Nalaar
"In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength."
Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death.
From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.
It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions.
They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last.
The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies.
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
Greatness, at any cost.
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key.
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.
I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi. —Expedition journal entry
"Let's do it again!" -Squee, goblin cabin hand
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world." -Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest
"I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine." -Sorin Markov
If you've never choked on the embers of your own spell, you aren't casting it hard enough.
WARNING: Shake gently. Contents may cause choking, hypothermia, and/or planar invasion.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
"Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them." —Dravus, lava mage
Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood.
"Even the threat of power has power." —Jeska, warrior adept
"I'm not indecisive. I just don't like to limit my options." —Maxti, pyromancer
"Most wizards consider a thunderbolt to be a proper retort." —Ertai, wizard adept
Man versus nature is not a fair fight.
"Elemental fire shimmers with rose hues and, unlike terrestrial blazes, smolders long after it's extinguished." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"We're going to need a bigger gate." —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces.
"If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold."
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Vulshok shamans could never keep them alive for more than a few seconds, yet those few seconds seemed to be enough.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.
Where wasted life cries out to be reborn.
Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
The Capashen built the highest towers in Benalia to afford themselves the best view.
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law —strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
One splash of the spring's water knocks you clear into last week.
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
A massive pull of mana caused all of Dominaria to pause —Multani had transplanted Yavimaya to Urborg's edge.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
"Don't laugh. It works." —Yavimaya ranger
From each seed, a world. From each world, a thousand seeds.
Secure in the embrace of wood, they want no part of Eladamri's war.
Tall as a tree and probably related.
It teaches you to play dead.
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
He exercises his right to bear arms.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk.
"The bones of the past will tell their tales —if you know how to speak their language." —Savra
Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.
This cat has two lives and it's hunting for more.
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing." —Seton, centaur druid
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis —and the world was lifeless no more." —Scroll of Beginnings
The forest was too lush for the brothers to despoil —almost.
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful."
"The elves can hide better than most can look." —Mwani, Mtenda herder
"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Only fools and bandits use roads."
Keldons divide all their spoils into two groups: trophies and catapult ammunition.
Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock." —Scroll of Beginnings
The time rifts remind Yavimaya of the enemies of its past and provide fresh fuel for its fires.
Those who will not follow are doomed to lead.
An audience of one with the malice of thousands.
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"Is it worse to walk while dead, or to be buried alive? I have witnessed both." —Crovax
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery." —Emily Dickinson
Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
"My brain hurts."
In the depths of Rootwater, salvage and sewage differ only in texture.
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead.
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Do not react to force in kind. Turn it aside. Direct it to where it can do no harm." —Meloku the Clouded Mirror
Man versus nature is not a fair fight.
Simic mages create redundant backups of their experiments to reduce the consequences of catastrophe.
Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.
"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit." —Barrin, progress report
"Four parts molten bronze, yes … one part frozen mercury, yes, yes … but then what?"
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"The so-called barbarians will not respect us for our military might —they will respect us for our honor." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." —Seal inscription
Clear out the cell. Bring in the next prisoner.
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
A circle of sugar and a word of forbiddance.
"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins." —Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls
"Those who endure in the face of suffering, those whose faith shines long in evil days, they shall see salvation." —Song of All, canto 904
"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them." —Lord Konda
Destroyed in one of the first battles of the Kami War, the town of Reito still grieved.
"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." —Daudi, Femeref tutor
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire." —"Hymn of Angelfire"
Its wings disturb more than air.
"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is … suppressed."
"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Not all silences are easily broken.
Beauty stirs the memory like a sweet perfume excites the air.
A blazing sun that never sets.
When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
The wizard Greensleeves called a Giant Badger to her aid in an battle with the desert mage Karli.
"When the land is angry, so are they." -Nissa Revane
"Your life will set with the sun."
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants." -Borzard, exterminator captain
"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
"Stay."
"Not again." -Hans
Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.
Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"She is a theme of honor and renown, . . . Whose present courage may beat down our foes." -William Shakespeare, Troilus and Cressida
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end Of this new glorious world . . . ?'" -John Milton, Paradise Lost
The foolish wish for that which they desire. The cunning wish for that which they require.
Some convictions are so strong that the world must break to accommodate them.
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive." -Elvish refugee
Her children are ever part of her.
MOCTODSDR AZIWTAXAM EELG
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
Where the Quicksilver Sea laps over the Razor Fields, the landscape reflects the suns' fading hope.
Where the Razor Fields beat back the Tangle, the crowded thicket yields to bright scimitars of grass.
What once spied upon Mirrodin from above now waits below for another to assume control.
Where the Mephidross leaches into the Quicksilver Sea, the waves writhe with necrogen.
Where the Tangle overruns the Oxidda mountains, metallic beasts scratch their territories in the verdigris.
Where the Oxidda Chain mingles with the Mephidross, oil-suffused metal crumbles away, leaving walls of blackened bones.
Rootlike fibers travel far from Mirrodin's metallic forests, emerging from the crust to drink in the mana-infused sunlight.
All the fury of the Vulshok with only a trace of their recklessness.
A Planeswalker's chronicle spans worlds and civilizations, each page a lifetime.
Phyrexia's machines take inspiration from nature. Twisted, disturbing inspiration.
Magnetic devices that keep massive golems and structures standing can also be used for the opposite purpose.
The ur-golems concealed one of their towers out of fear that its power would be abused, and in anticipation of a time when its power would be sorely needed.
At the heart of Ish Sah, Geth stokes the dark fires of Phyrexia.
All the zeal of the Sylvok with only a trace of their conservancy.
The druid's lifestaff connects her to generations of bygone Sylvok.
Each journey begins with a single step—and sometimes ends with that single step as well.
The gemini engines had lost connection with each other and wandered apart, developing an independent awareness of their surroundings.
Built from a reconfigured thresher, it charges with light reflected off the golden plain, ready to take to the air in case of danger.
The myr are like quicksilver: malleable in function and adaptable in form.
Forged from what it forges.
The warriors of the Blade Tribe charged the golem, twenty strong. They returned numbering ten . . . and a half.
"We consider rust a curable disease." —Tarrin, Hammer-Tribe shaman
DANGER! Keep appendages clear of front of machine. And rear of machine. And side of machine. And top of machine.
It ignores such insignificant forces as time, entropy, and death.
To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary.
The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations.
All the curiosity of the Neurok with only a trace of their duplicity.
Moriok necromancers actively spread necrogen, encouraging the transformation from Mirran to nim.
A mana well as bottomless as the myr are tireless.
"We will ingest and remake this world in our image, not unlike some admirable designs I have seen here." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"We can't quite determine what they're doing, but they seem to be doing it quite well." —Vedalken research notes
The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once.
All the secrets of the Moriok with only a trace of their corruption.
It's a helm that leaves the head at its most vulnerable.
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.
There are few problems that can't be solved by putting a hole in the world.
"They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
The myr are like necrogen: a transformative force unconcerned with the changes they wreak.
The goblins say it used to be larger, before it began to stoke the Great Furnace with pieces of itself.
The myr are like rusted metal: gleaming purpose hidden by a thin disguise of debris.
Neurok spies carry devices that let them look a few moments into the future, giving them an almost insurmountable edge.
Pray you never hear it chime.
The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.
Better living through metallurgy.
The myr are like razorgrass: numberless metal figures, reflecting each other's light.
Its predecessors were etched with the wisdom of ancients; its own etchings bear warnings of a future fraught with war.
After the vanishing of the elder generations, the Anvil Tribe developed creative solutions to their personnel shortages.
One part unstoppable force, one part immovable object.
Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last.
"Forswear the flesh and you will truly see." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
The myr are like verdigris: an ever-present patina on the surface of a metal world.
According to Auriok myth, it collects scrap in order to reassemble its lost rider.
Lacking trained pterons, the Auriok had to rely on other measures to gain the upper hand in the skies.
"One need only look at the inhabitants of this world to see that they are forged halfway to perfection. All they need is a whisper of the Glorious Word." —Urabrask the Hidden
All the loyalty of the Auriok with only a trace of their self-righteousness.
Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power.
An Auriok shield is polished to a mirror finish even on the inside, enabling its bearer to watch foes ahead and behind.
On Mirrodin, every conflict ends in either death or darksteel.
"If I were the air, I wouldn't taunt the ground. It has the weight advantage." —Konnos, Sylvok sage
"Let them have their revel. Soon those who won't submit will be turned. Those who won't be turned will die." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"Beasts kill for their very survival. If you would have their strength, you must know their desperation." —Konnos, Sylvok sage
"No longer am I shackled to antiquity. My new masters will etch a glorious future."
The Viridian elves had purged their culture of the trolls' traitorous influence. In times of strife, however, the ancestral memories returned.
A plague on the curious.
"The hypocrisy of these elves is thicker than steel—destroying 'unnatural metal' with their own enchanted swords." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
"A trail of scrap metal can lead it into an ambush. But take care not to overfeed it." —Adaran, Tangle hunter
The Sylvok see the artificer as a gardener, preparing the world for hardy growth.
Riding ravenous, ever-growing vorracs is almost as dangerous as fitting them with saddles.
The infamous Ezuri commands the highest bounty the vedalken have ever placed upon an outlaw.
Its teeth exist only for decoration.
Phyrexia strives to simulate natural life, but it can't resist improving on the design.
Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note.
The natural order is out of order.
"Bows and whips cannot save us from these new horrors of the Mephidross."
"Much can be gained from the appearance of vulnerability." —Ezuri, renegade leader
Its venom drips with Phyrexia's hate.
"Let my ignominy build walls thicker than iron and stronger than darksteel." —Thrun, the last troll
Hunger seized the tyrranax, and the Sylvok's vision quest ended in disaster.
Its web is an excellent source of found copper for the daring or the stupid.
He fashions stirring words with as much passion as a smith fashioning a warhammer.
"If it wasn't a blackened, stinking, melted abomination before, it certainly is now." —Koth of the Hammer
Fight mischief with mischief.
Now that he knows a thousand ways of hurting people, his next shamanic quest is to discover a thousand more.
"I am an artist, a builder, a creator . . . I create the biggest explosions around." —Krol, goblin furnace-priest
A single molten cord links it to the subterranean furnaces, drawing heat and metal from beneath Kuldotha. Until that bond is cut, it carves a swath of raw destruction.
It subsists on a diet rich in screaming metal and molten blood.
His goggles spattered with grime and his mouth full of bugs, he tossed the engines another priceless relic.
Long reach, short attention span.
Just as the most finely wrought metal can warp and rust, so too does Mirrodin buckle under pressures from without and within.
All goblin rituals serve a dual purpose as fertility rites, even the destructive ones. Especially the destructive ones.
He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant.
"When everything looks like a nail, you really need to get yourself a hammer." —Krol, goblin furnace-priest
Mirrodin has little weather, but it certainly has lightning.
Reduce. Reuse. Wreak havoc.
"The most reliable omen of a future hellion attack is a past hellion attack." —Spear-Tribe teaching
The Vulshok use its digestion to break down the most obstinate metals, from darksteel myr to seastrider plates.
The Vulshok see the artificer as a catalyst, bringing the spark of creation that ignites change.
"Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!"
The elves had devised countless strategies to combat Memnarch's war machines, but they had no idea what to do when one was thrown at them.
When breaking someone's face once just isn't enough.
"Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom." —Spear-Tribe teaching
"Welcome to perfection." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"Your creations are effective, Sheoldred, but we must unite the flesh, not merely flay it." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
"Until we shed the curse of sentience, we must endure its grotesque handiwork." —Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger
"A mind may be steeled against madness, but all battlements fall in time." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis.
The Moriok see the artificer as a taskmaster, forcing lazy metal into more potent shapes.
"For each word spoken, one forgotten. For each thought, a memory rotten." —Moriok incantation
"To death all must go, and so in death lies ultimate power." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
Contrary to popular belief, it's kept aloft by necrogen gas, not the screaming agony of a thousand murdered souls.
"The Moriok are fools. They try so hard to gain my favor. All I want is for them to die quickly, to join the ranks of the nim." —Geth, Lord of the Vault
"You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes."
"The results of our ninth inoculation were the same. The specimen was, of course, euthanized before the contagion could spread." —Vedalken research notes
On a world with five suns, night is compelled to become an aggressive force.
"Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen." —Adaran, Tangle hunter
Vampires don't consider patience a virtue nor gluttony a sin.
Bred in the vicious Mephidross, dross hoppers learned to eat quickly and escape faster.
"Before the blessed assault begins, we must seek specimens that are well-adapted to our way of . . . life." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
"This species has grown to be my preferred receptacle for our divine message." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
Every contagion has a host.
"The sooner you join Phyrexia, the sooner you'll forget your painful rebirth." —Sheoldred, Whispering One
As the shadow of the Mephidross spread over the Tangle, the vampires' territory expanded.
"Bitten? Save time, amputate now." —Lephar, loxodon surgeon
"Glorifying the will is a mistake. It is simply one more force to be mastered."
"An appropriately detailed model is indistinguishable from reality, and much easier to control."
"The edges of the Quicksilver Sea run dark with the spread of the Mephidross. Two more aerial passes before I can be sure what I'm seeing . . ." —Lafarius, Neurok sky agent
"True strength is in the mind, for the body is too malleable a form." —Politus, vedalken emisar
"It's not my job to ask our leaders about their experiments at the Knowledge Pool. It's my job to make sure they can continue performing them."
Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless.
"More of that strange oil . . . It's probably nothing."
They swim on tides few can see, away from a threat few yet understand.
It's adaptively deaf to its own cries.
Smart artificers clean up after themselves.
The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath.
"You know you have achieved true power if the sea itself seeks to emulate your greatness." —Vy Covalt, Neurok agent
The Neurok buried entangling cables just under the Quicksilver Sea. One seastrider harvest can provide an army's worth of armor and shields.
"They won't see your shadow or hear your breath, but they will feel your blade."
Properly outfitted, drakes made perfect sentries for vedalken strongholds.
"See how gratefully this world accepts our blessings." —Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur
An artificer's least favorite mind-missive may be "I regret to inform you that the funding for your project has been cut."
"Strike me once, shame on you. Strike me twice . . . Well, let's just see if you can." —Kara Vrist, Neurok agent
Most casualties of the power struggle between vedalken and Neurok didn't die on the field of battle; they merely disappeared.
At the edge of the Mephidross, Phyrexia's influence seeps into life and land.
The sea's reach extends beyond its shores.
A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver.
All over the Razor Fields, Whitesun is celebrated. Even the followers of the rebel Juryan, far from the Cave of Light, bow their heads in reverence.
"As she grew cold in my arms, I swore an oath that her funeral pyre would be dwarfed by a bonfire of our enemies."
Dozens of spells known only to the Auriok elders were lost, but the next generation, galvanized by war, devised even more potent magic.
"Death shall prevail as long as our will falls to rust. May necessity anneal our resolve." —Ghalma the Shaper
Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury.
There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia.
"I was called to this world of steel, and it will be my steel that answers." —Elspeth Tirel
The time between spotting a leonin shikari and feeling its claws is just time enough to draw your last breath.
"I'm not saying it's dangerous work. I'm just saying don't sign up if you have plans for your seventieth birthday."
"No half measures, no regrets. We'll tell no stories of this day. It will be as if it never existed at all." —Ganedor, loxodon mystic
She incubates her eggs in gold and mana.
The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world.
The Mirran elders vanished with Memnarch, leaving behind a generation of wayward orphans.
"Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning."
"We're now to dispense aid to any Mirran we see battling anything . . . 'strange.' Regent's orders." —Ranya, skyhunter captain
"I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder."
"Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand." —Auriok proverb
Its eyes burned nearly blind by the Whitesun, it hunts by metallic gleam.
A special unit guards the loxodon artificer known as Ghalma the Shaper. They are armed and armored in her finest works of silver and steel.
"Channeling the white-hot power of all five suns creates a pretty good diversion." —Yavash of the Accorders
The Accorders never strike first, but they always strike back.
"Grant me loft. Grant me light. Grant me the accuracy I need to kill all who threaten Bladehold." —Prayer to the Whitesun
Auriok soldiers craft their own weapons, forging a connection to the steel with each blow of the hammer.
Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok.
"You can break nothing I cannot mend."
Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power.
"You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes."
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Panopticon, forge of the Darksteel Eye, home of Mirrodin's keeper.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
"The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"To truly know something, you must become it. The trick is to not lose yourself in the process."
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
A taut slipknot trigger is the only thing standing between you and standing.
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect." —Baron Sengir
"Release that which was never caged." —Spellbomb inscription
Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
"Why do bad things always come in threes?" —Gisulf, expedition survivor
"We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die." —Pontifex, elder researcher
The mighty city of An Karras, with its rich history, built over thousands of years, fell in three hours.
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.
"Whereas I was created to protect, the biskelion was created to destroy." —Karn, silver golem
With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.
"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact." —Sargis Haz, artificer
The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
"We sculpt the land into what we need—homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from commanding the terrain." —Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
The parts are as strong as the whole.
"Tideshaping is more than creating a few new puddles."
Dominaria erodes with each passing gust.
As war raged on, the young mages became more direct in their tactics, often at great cost.
"Finally, I understand. Home isn't where you rest. It's what you fight for." —Elspeth Tirel
"We protect our homelands. Why should they not protect us?"
"The nim raid our homes without warning. We must defend our homes without hesitation."
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly." —Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption.
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power." —Orim, Samite inquisitor
Equenauts are the seeds of the Conclave, scattered on the four winds, searching for new places to take root.
"There's no 'I' in 'team,' but there's a 'we' in 'weapon.'"
There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it.
"We're now to dispense aid to any Mirran we see battling anything . . . 'strange.' Regent's orders." —Ranya, skyhunter captain
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
The flasks provide ballast, a means of steering, and—with a little luck—a way to deliver ward-spells to cohorts below.
Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it.
"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."
"There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy."
His aim is as sure as a mosquito's sting, but with none of the warning.
"My cause is simple: To stop you, at any cost, from ever seeing the inside of this keep."
"Any fool can pick up a sword and charge into battle. To emerge alive at the end, that is a gift that comes from leadership and experience."
"It's a proven fact that sling-stones from the dawn side of the riverbank sail the farthest and truest." —Deagan, cenn of Burrenton
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold.
"It offers you what you want, not what you need." —Braids, dementia summoner
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
2010 Vintage Championship Winner
For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair.
"The great wurm bit down on me. Instead of being crunched bloody, I slid into the space where its tooth was missing. One tooth—a boon most potent, indeed." —The Tall Tales of Oleander
To split wood with it would be sacrilege. This tool has but one purpose, and that is war.
The missing piece to every puzzle.
"Why do bad things always come in threes?" —Gisulf, expedition survivor
Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows.
When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica.
The sculptor, like most artists, put his heart and soul in his work. But the newly awakened golem decided he wanted his creator's other, more tangible parts.
"The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact." —Sargis Haz, artificer
Simun the Quiet filled the chest with his most precious thoughts. But in a fit of paranoia, he locked up the memory of where he hid the key.
She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal.
Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.
It's seen the wonders of entire worlds trapped in the depths of a bottomless ocean.
The mighty city of An Karras, with its rich history, built over thousands of years, fell in three hours.
"Please, honored friend, take it with my compliments. I insist."
"Do not mistake a quiet rampart for one that is unguarded. Some things stir only when they need to." —Bonovar, siege commander
"Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect." —Baron Sengir
"If there is a fire that never ceases to burn, it surely lies in the maw of a dragon." —Sarkhan Vol
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
It glints with arcane truths to those who know how to glimpse them.
"In my early experiments in phylactery, I found that fragile forms have their uses." —Rocati, Duke of Martyne
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
Anywhere else, colossal. In the forests of Yavimaya, commonplace.
Like all jungle plants, the vines must fight and claw for sunlight. Once their place is secured, they grow strong, sharp, and impenetrable.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
"They're as much like plants as animals. Leave them unchecked, and they'll choke out all other forms of life." —Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
"I raised my bow, and the wolf stared at me. Under its gaze, my finger would not release the string." —Aref the Hunter
"Nature has grown tired of the impositions of men and will begin to outfit its creations with tools for bloody instruction." —Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
"The desire for its magic horn inspires such bloodthirsty greed that all who see the unicorn will kill to possess it." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
When nature calls, run.
"You are the grandest of all," said the archdruid to the trees. They became so proud of bark and branch that they suffered no creature to fly overhead or perch upon a bough.
Snail shell, fern, tornado—the world connects all things in form.
"Nature does not need adornment." —Garruk Wildspeaker
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Those who kill a jawspur rhino must prepare spells to lift the carcass—even a dozen hunters can't lift its bulk.
It was only then—to his infinite sorrow—that Gork realized hornets don't make honey.
Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk.
The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.
"He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share." —Garruk Wildspeaker
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else." —Lord Hilneth
She wears the talismans of every creature she can evoke.
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
She grants knowledge of the ways to traverse the forest's invisible connections.
All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity.
The war lasted for generations. The boars didn't need to hunt for food anymore. They fed on the fallen corpses, and the living fed off of them.
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world." —Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest
"Nature is a mutable cloud which is always and never the same." —Ralph Waldo Emerson, Essays
The druids of Mazar treat each seedcone with respect for the warrior it will become.
The rustling of leaves and a passing shadow are a dryad's only trace.
He will carve out a legend for himself with his own two hands.
His blood boiled over, and he erupted with fists of stone.
Lightning reflexes, thunderous might.
"I'm not indecisive. I just don't like to limit my options." —Maxti, pyromancer
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?" —Chandra Nalaar
The Multiverse is filled with limitless power just waiting for someone to reach out and seize it.
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."
It's fun. He doesn't need another reason.
From the heart of the mountain into the heart of the mage.
The veneer of rationality peeled from the mage, revealing the spite and rage beneath.
"You never know what's going to be in goblin tunnels. Even in the best case, there will still be goblins." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
"We are goblinkind, heirs to the mountain empires of chieftains past. Rest is death to us, and arson is our call to war."
"The enemy is getting too close! Quick! Inflate the toad!"
Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.
"Elemental fire shimmers with rose hues and, unlike terrestrial blazes, smolders long after it's extinguished." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability." —Maggath, Sardian elementalist
Flurk's crude goblin language didn't differentiate between "I bring the flame" and "I am the flame."
"Fire. Air. Water. These elements spread, filling in the spaces they are not. But earth is implacable like a sullen child." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
The end of the world rarely comes quietly.
"I've lit most everything on fire—trees, rocks, even the water. Now it's time to burn the clouds."
"Her mind is an incredible mix of emotion and power. Even if I could grasp it, I couldn't hold it for long." —Jace Beleren, on Chandra Nalaar
"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side." "Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?" "Yes." "So shouldn't we—" "No."
"A single drop of blood draws their attention, then they strip your bones clean before you have time to die." —Jamias, hermit of Telfer Peak
They take a blood oath to die in battle. So far none have failed to fulfill the promise.
The storms of the wastelands form quickly and hit hard. Few have anything to do with rain.
When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut.
"Born under the moon, the second child will stumble on temptation and seek power in the dark places of the heart." —Codex of the Constellari
"You can take the fight out of nearly any creature if you know where its soft spot is." —Guttor, flesh-warper
Little agonies pave the way to greater power.
An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients.
Zombies have one speed: shamble.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
Though you may see the same bones, you'll never see the same skeleton twice.
The dread gases didn't kill Farbid. But as he lay in the muck, miserable and helpless, watching ghouls and rats advance on him, he wished they had.
"There is one hour of the night even we do not watch." —Sedva, captain of the watch
"My dreams darkened and seeped into my waking hours. Spellcraft and nightmare merged to create this monstrosity." —Sunniva, witch of Holm Hollow
In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it.
Not every thought is a good one.
"The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing." —Liliana Vess
"This might hurt less if you don't fight so hard. But I doubt it."
Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
Only a thin layer of dirt separates civilization from an undead apocalypse.
Death in form and function.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
The armies of the dead always report well rested.
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
The locks on the cages of the damned are opened with keys of marrow, sinew, and blood.
There are few ways to escape the deathmark: bargaining with a demon, washing in the fabled waters of youth, and of course, death.
"It is a rough road that leads to the heights of greatness." —Seneca, Epistles, trans. Gummere
The power of the fens sleeps lightly, and always awakens hungry.
A vampire enacts vengeance on the entire world, claiming her debt two tiny pinpricks at a time.
Zombies are the perfect marshland fighters—they don't need to breathe and they don't care what they step in.
"The underclass often forget that they are not tenants, or servants, but property."
The Crimson Throne may be empty, but its coffers are full.
"Poor little sun-dweller out past curfew. And to think, you might have survived if it wasn't so close to suppertime."
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
"This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid." —Lumi, goatherd
"You're trespassing in my reality. Ask permission next time." —Simun the Quiet
He was left with just enough memory to understand what he had lost.
Genius is overrated, especially when it's someone else's.
"Optimists see the world as they wish it to be. Pessimists see the world as it is. Must these roles be mutually exclusive?" —Evo Ragus
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious." —Garild, merfolk mage
I've learned how to disable wards, pick locks, and decode the Agaran language—all before even reading the scroll!
"Your strategy is marvelous. I've just made a few minor adjustments." —Veris, watcher of Indi Keep
As insubstantial as fear, and as dangerous.
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
"The mind: a great weapon and an even greater weakness." —Jace Beleren
"Be like the sea: flow around that which is unmovable; for everything else, crash into it unrelentingly."
Once common in the Kapsho Seas, merfolk were hunted almost to extinction. They survived those dark days and emerged calculating and determined to endure.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
"Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key."
"You should try to clear your mind of idle thoughts. And if you can't, I will."
Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master.
Two eyes to see what could be, two eyes to see what will.
"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood." —Heidar, Rimewind master
"'That was a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence." —Lewis Carroll, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
"The sky teems with just as much life as the forest or the deep seas." —Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist
The shapeshifter mimics with a twin's esteem and a mirror's cruelty.
"It's hard to say which is more satisfying: the search for that missing piece or fitting that piece into place." —Evo Ragus
More so than "storm" or "pirate," "drake" is the word a sailor least wants to hear.
Creatures displaced from time still turn up every year, stranded by the temporal disaster that once swept across Dominaria.
"The ground polluted floats with human gore, And human carnage taints the dreadful shore Fly swift the dangerous coast: let every ear Be stopp'd against the song! 'tis death to hear!" —Homer, The Odyssey, trans. Pope
"Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered." —Jestus Dreya, Of Elements and Eternity
Some mages do their best work in solitude. Others do their best work creating it.
Farmers typically keep their flocks at thirteen sheep—one to distract the griffins while they take the other twelve to market.
"Let nothing take away from the purity of swords clashing or of arrows taking flight toward the breast of evil."
If they succeed in their holy work, their order will vanish into welcome obscurity, for there will be no more souls to redeem.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"At summer's end, the pegasus herd stampedes across the sky. Their silent footfalls taunt the clouds and bid the rains to come." —Stormfront fable
"A relic donation is suggested." "The suggestion is mandatory." —Temple signs
"In the wild, white fur like mine is an aberration. We lack natural camouflage, but the inability to hide encourages other strengths." —Ajani Goldmane
"Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins." —Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls
"The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!" —General Avitora
Perfect justice in service of a perfect will.
With one flap of her wings, the angel beat back the fires of war.
"I'm not nearly as bothered by being outnumbered as I am by their foul stench."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"The southern fortress taken by invaders? Heh, sure . . . when elephants fly." —Brezard Skeinbow, captain of the guard
"Impossible! How could they overwhelm us? We had barricades, war elephants, . . . and they were barely a tenth of our number!" —General Avitora
"Any fool can pick up a sword and charge into battle. To emerge alive at the end, that is a gift that comes from leadership and experience."
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
"Born under the sun, the first child will seek the foundation of honor and be fortified by its righteousness." —Codex of the Constellari
"Little moth, fluttering bright, What luck will you bring tonight?" —Benalish children's rhyme
"Our law prohibits capital punishment. We believe even the gravest offenders have the chance to redeem themselves." —Torian Sha, soul warden
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
Each crusader bonds with a griffin fledgling while still a child, and the two grow up as siblings.
"They say only the good die young. Obviously, you are one of the exceptions." —Delrobah, cleric of Ivora Gate
"I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see."
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
"Fine soldiers guarded the northern front. They waited for two-legged foes and left the skies unheeded." —General Avitora
With skill and strength honed upon the prairie, Naxtil won his battles high above it.
"When one of us prospers, the pride prospers." —Jazal Goldmane
"He hasn't returned to the Cloud Forest. But I can still sense his calming presence." —Zaliki of Naya
"The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world." —Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest
When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders.
A blazing sun that never sets.
"Fool. I'll show you how to use that thing."
"I have seen far beyond this imperfect world, into a tomorrow that doesn't include you."
"I can't abide laziness. Arise, forces of nature, and serve your master!"
"Let that be a lesson to you, your family, and everyone you've ever known."
"Silence your wailing. This is but a taste of the destruction my pets have in store."
"Or, if you prefer, just surrender."
"Don't come back until you've got brains in your teeth."
"I assure you, these are not the kind that thrive on sunlight and water."
"Look around you. All you behold is mine to rule. It's the natural way."
"Cretins build machines. I construct destiny."
"But nothing will end your regret."
"Indulge me. Just one spell. One potentially fatal spell gone horribly awry."
"I can see . . . everything. The beginning and the end of time. The raw edges of reality. And now I see exactly how to kill you."
"I certainly would have accepted my offer of eternal life. But if you choose death instead, who am I to argue?"
"This should halt the spread of your insolence."
"Today I take the reins of destiny itself. Today the Draconic Apocalypse is upon you."
"Cranial explosions for everyone. Still planning to outthink my dragons?"
"It would be disappointing if you were unable to overcome this simplest of defenses. Hilarious, but disappointing."
"Meet my newest minion. Come now, don't be shy—shake her pincer."
"You may even see them again. Full digestion takes three hundred years."
"Heroes innovate. Villains duplicate."
"I can't imagine what you're feeling right now, but I'll try my best."
"Even you have a purpose. Your blood will oil the gears."
"The plants justify the means."
"May bloodberries grow from your remains."
"Oh, I think I will get away with this."
"My vision is for the good of everyone. Mostly me."
"What would you say is my greatest attribute? Is it my gluttonous lust for power?"
"Tell your old master I said hello."
"It seems the fate of the world rests on your shoulders, feeble child."
"I'd call that a successful first test. Golem! Rearm the Doom Citadel!"
"It's a dragon-infested lavascape of notorious peril. Make yourselves at home."
"It's my goal to find the melting point of every substance."
"Take a moment. Ponder the depths of your insignificance."
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
"We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die." —Pontifex, elder researcher
Simun the Quiet filled the chest with his most precious thoughts. But in a fit of paranoia, he locked up the memory of where he hid the key.
Only a focused mind can survive it.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself.
In the blur between metal and flesh, Memnarch found madness.
"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Built with neither a way to steer nor a way to stop, the juggernauts were simply aimed at an enemy's best defenses and told to charge.
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
"Release that which was never caged." —Spellbomb inscription
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body.
Creations made in madness may contain great power. The path to that power is as labyrinthine as the creator's mind.
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that." —Taani, berserker of Etlan
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example." —Trigori, Azorius senator
"These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die."
"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him." —Mangara
"You helped save my people from a Phyrexian fate. Did you think I wouldn't return the favor?" —Eladamri, to Gerrard
"Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance." —Sarkhan Vol
"Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free." —Rakka Mar
Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
This secret society of mages manipulates the beliefs and opinions of others.
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
The parched earth still shielded those few souls with the heart to call it home.
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.
Slain orochi warriors were buried with a tree sapling so they would become a part of the forest after death.
Hatred outlives the hateful.
"You are the grandest of all," said the archdruid to the trees. They became so proud of bark and branch that they suffered no creature to fly overhead or perch upon a bough.
"My mind is the spread of the canopy. My heart is the embrace of the roots. I am deathless Llanowar, its fury and its peace."
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
"My mind has changed. My strength has not."
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else." —Lord Hilneth
It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.
"How can we outrun the sky?" —Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
"Do you smell something burning?"
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
Dragon lords of Jund rule by edicts of flame.
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
"Her mind is an incredible mix of emotion and power. Even if I could grasp it, I couldn't hold it for long." —Jace Beleren, on Chandra Nalaar
Their skeletons can be found all over Skirk Ridge, tangled in each other's horns.
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it." —Mystic elder
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?" —Xathrid demon
Though you may see the same bones, you'll never see the same skeleton twice.
"You will learn to earn death." —Volrath
"This vulgar mimicry will end now." —Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather." —Rannon, Vithian holdout
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.
Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
Every grave cradles a recruit.
The world is the body. The mana is the blood. The witch is the surgeon.
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.
"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
"By the time I got there, the heart had stopped. Fortunately, I was able to replace it with something better."
Only leonin clerics who can survive the Razor Fields for one turning of the suns can stand in the Cave of Light.
"Are they dead yet? No? Then my previous order stands."
"I'm calling in a favor from an old friend. Once you're all dead, I'll consider the matter settled."
"I don't expect you to understand the myriad ways in which you're about to die."
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
"A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend." —Onean sergeant
Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
A banner for bonds of blood or belief.
Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations.
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.
Its spines act like the teeth of a saw, scoring distinctive marks in the vegetation of its territory.
Bears aren't always as strong and as mean as you imagine. Some are even stronger and meaner.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
Like nature, the fern spirals back on itself, eternally seeking its own center.
If you want to destroy something lifeless, make it live.
"Jewels cannot be eaten nor gold drunk. What civilization trades, nature simply provides." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.
The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.
The other tribes call them fanatics, but none deny that the Mul Daya elves have an iron-strong bond to some force greater than themselves.
The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.
"Gaea sings with the voice of nature rampant: a thousand howls, chitters, and cries, and none of them can be ignored."
As graceful as a deer leaping a stream and as deadly as the wolf waiting in ambush on the other side, elvish warriors are the eyes of the forest as well as its unsheathed claws.
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.
"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Elvish hymn
"Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here."
"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
"Before armor, there was bark. Before blades, there were thorns." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"Once I saw a goblin shouting at a thunderstorm. He lost the argument pretty quickly." —Wandering mage
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Vengeance is a dish best served twice.
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
The barbarians call it "touching the soul of the dragon."
Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold."
Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat.
Fire never dies alone.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
"Born under the moon, the second child will stumble on temptation and seek power in the dark places of the heart." —Codex of the Constellari
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.
Winnowers live to eliminate eyeblights, creatures the elves deem too ugly to exist.
Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.
"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them." —Volrath
"It's a vicious circle. Stress breeds pain. Pain breeds stress. It's simply beautiful, wouldn't you agree?" —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one." —Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
"The elves are right: Death inevitably leads to life. But the truly powerful don't just experience this cycle. They control it." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
They envy the life-giving heat so much that they tear it from those who still possess it.
His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.
Mages routinely summon creatures from the Æther. It's only fair that they occasionally throw one back.
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs.
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.
"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks." —Jace Beleren
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?" —Jace Beleren
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
"Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are." —Alexi, zephyr mage
Some wizards compete not to summon the most interesting creatures, but to create the most interesting aftereffects when a summons goes awry.
According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night.
"From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better." —Emperor Aboshan
The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
Early Jamuraan hunters devised a weapon that would return to its source. Tolarian Æthermancers developed a spell that skipped the weapon entirely.
"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab." —Joseph Conrad, The Mirror of the Sea
Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others.
Each temple is a door to a horrible future.
The best defense is a good offense.
Its host's final curse lies captured within.
Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head.
Built of wood and iron. Held together by hope and prayer.
"The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich."
Draped with the pennon of a fallen outpost, the sword came to symbolize the peoples of Zendikar becoming one.
She adopted the weapon of the slave-lord Kazuul, and with it, all his cruelty.
As it spins, dead voices shriek in an ever-increasing cacophony, rending the mind asunder.
The hedrons awoke along with the Eldrazi, forming superstructures that radiated overwhelming magic.
Golems conjured from the debris of Enatu Temple provided a sturdy but expendable first line of defense against the Eldrazi.
Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within.
It holds a whisper from Iona: "Persevere."
"Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us." —The Invokers' Tales
Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor.
"No more blood shall be spilled to satisfy another's deluded lust for power."
"This one is only a yearling, but it would be wise to move away before we provide it with excellent hunting practice." —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"They don't move much, but then again, if you get caught in its web, it has all the time in the world to get to you." —Saidah, Joraga hunter
It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves.
"Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies." —The War Diaries
Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents.
It nurtures its masters' glorious future.
In one gargantuan bite, it will swallow not only you but also the riverbank you were standing on.
"The scholars wept when we destroyed the hedron. I had no such pity. What would this world be like had we done so sooner?" —The War Diaries
It wasn't long until the elves had developed a use for every part of the Eldrazi.
The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage.
"That our enemies are great only brings us greater hope."
"Those who think the trees shall remain bystanders throughout this conflict shall be sorely mistaken." —Sutina, Speaker of the Tajuru
It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think.
"In ages past, bargains were struck and promises were made. Now we must collect on our debt. Begin the hymns." —Moruul, Khalni druid
Nature's arms encircle all who are willing to draw close.
The baloth's instincts boiled, its muscles pulled taut, and its razor-spines bristled, as it turned to face—a runt meepling.
Its breath leaves its prey too drowsy to struggle.
Storms spread throughout Oran-Rief, ripping the skies with wind and rain. Airborne creatures sought shelter where they could.
"All life is driven by an indomitable will to survive. I simply turn that into something more . . . tangible."
Even as the world was left cracked and gory by the marauding Eldrazi, new life began to drip from its wounds.
"Petrifying gaze, deadly fangs, knifelike dorsal spines, venomous saliva . . . Am I missing anything? . . . Toxic bones? Seriously?" —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"The least of gods shall tower over the mightiest of mortals, and death shall reign over all." —Crypt of Agadeem inscription
A bramblesnap is formed by grafting together thirteen different plants that already hunger for meat.
"From in here, everything looks like dinner."
The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days.
Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done.
"Our pyromancer's flames may not have killed them, but they bought us the time we needed." —The War Diaries
"Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone." —The War Diaries
"Just move very slowly, and for the love of Ula, do not get it mad." —Chadir the Navigator
Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins.
The horror lurched about like a puppet from a madman's nightmare, squeezing the life from its own kind.
"I know just the person for that job."
Death by death, Kozilek's lineage spread.
It draws its strength from those around it, but the pleasure of destruction is all its own.
Goblins in the first wave of a fire raid always bemoan the aim of everyone else.
The settlement knew there was something strange about the cloud when the old priest Mandli suddenly grabbed an axe and ran screaming into the hills.
"You have to appreciate the genius of it. Why bother building defenses when you can just fill the pass with angry ogres?" —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
"The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw." —Jaji, magmaw worshipper
"Then the ancient masters themselves, towers of rapacity, rose and began their calamitous feast." —The Invokers' Tales
Tracing their ancestry back to Zendikar's earliest forms of life, lagac lizards have seen the comings and goings of planeswalkers and the Eldrazi, and the rise of the vampire clans, none of which has changed them one bit.
It traps an explosion within its stony skin.
Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles.
"There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"I don't think he's bringing in the mail . . . ." —Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
"You never know what's going to be in goblin tunnels. Even in the best case, there will still be goblins." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed.
"Play no favorites. Everybody dies." —Sparkmage saying
After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers.
"Something down there has an appetite for what we're standing on. Let's hope it doesn't want seconds." —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
Wordlessly it leads its abhorrent brood.
Things born in magma are always angry.
It speaks no commands but is always obeyed.
The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi.
"I will build no sanctuaries. The safety you seek can be won only by the sword." —Yannash, outpost builder
"If you're in Akoum and you glimpse a shadow overhead, the worst thing you can do is duck." —Chadir the Navigator
It haunts the remnants of the Helix of Zof, leeching strength from the vast Eldrazi ruin.
"Consider my debt to your kin paid in full." —Idrol, Guul Draz assassin
Ulamog's tentacles, their touch like burning ice, rummaged through his soul and stung his memories one by one.
Necromancers are judged by the most powerful undead they've ever created. There are those who have animated just a single being, yet are considered the pinnacle of their dark craft.
"Have you ever killed insects nibbling at your crops? I think that's what the Eldrazi believe they're doing to us." —Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
Sorin has gathered grudges for centuries, patiently awaiting the day he can exact the perfect vengeance.
"I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can."
It removed only one idea from her mind: defiance.
Hate is an everlasting wellspring from which it is eternally sustained.
"To evade the brood lineages, one must be made dark to all the senses." —Traga, Zulaport runner
To the soldier, war is famine; to the scavenger, a feast.
"Romanticize it, glamorize it, call it what you will. To me, it will always be carnal, bloody murder." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
You will scream out your innermost secrets just to make it stop.
All the angel saw was her doom.
Scavengers both mundane and magical follow in its wake, feeding on the scraps of flesh and spirit it leaves behind.
Eldrazi grow wherever something else dies.
Left masterless by Kozilek, it wandered the wilds, raving in its ceaseless hunger.
Each Eldrazi ancient spawned a lineage of horrors in unfathomable shapes.
"If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes."
"Morality is just shorthand for the constraints of being powerless." —Ob Nixilis
Death inevitably seduces all who study it.
"We must all push through the pain to heal our world." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"The Na Plateau is lost. Do not ask what happened, and never return there." —Nirthu, lone missionary
"Why does it destroy? It does, and to talk of reasons wastes time and breath." —Nirthu, lone missionary
The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress.
Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi.
"The brood lineages unfolded across the world, each patterned after one of three progenitors, each a study in mindless consumption." —The Invokers' Tales
"Ah, again it does not bode well for you."
Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm.
"I would rather take my own head than be thwarted by a presumptuous wretch with a shield and a dream."
"The unfathomable is upon us, students. I have no doubt you will rise to the occasion."
"We're glad to be of service—to be an audience to your failure." —Maizah Shere, Tazeem lullmage
Under the master's eye, skills are honed sharper and spells cut deeper.
"A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding."
Riches must be divided, but real wealth can be shared.
Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground.
"The secret entrance should be near."
To truly know a creature, slither a mile in its tentacles.
"Never look too deep, where the waters turn dark. What the sea has hidden there may not stay down forever." —Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad
From the moment the first Eldrazi spawn squirmed free, everything on Zendikar took on an adjusted meaning, a new slant toward or away from the waking giants.
Create an illusion so strong that it becomes another's reality, and you can become the master of all.
"It's so cute when it's sleeping, isn't it? Actually, it's still as abhorrent as ever, but at least it's not trying to kill us." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"I'd build an entire fortress of them if I could." —Mzali, Lighthouse archmage
"Emeria is a pleasant lie, a figment to hide Emrakul's hideous face. I can only hope to uncover a truth that lies deeper still."
"The structure gets bigger every hour, with hedrons coalescing even deep under the surface. If I could only get inside . . . ."
"It's good to learn from your failures, but I prefer to learn from the failures of others." —Jace Beleren
"Yeah, they've got a lot of meat. The only downside to eating 'em is that you often find human bones and body parts inside." —Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad
It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense.
As they awakened, the Eldrazi reasserted their mastery over all of Zendikar's natural forces.
"We thought Zendikar's rage was kindled by its explorers and plunderers. But the world had sensed the stirrings of the Eldrazi." —The Invokers' Tales
"To distract an archmage would take incredible power. But for a simpleton, something sparkly will do." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"That would have brought shame to you as a mage. Tell you what—I'll keep your secret." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"'Fraid of heights? Ride a horse. 'Fraid of missing out? Rein up a drake." —Trinda, Hada spy patrol
"Although armor and auras can be similar, the brains required to use them are worlds apart." —Zilan, Makindi auramancer
"I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi." —Expedition journal entry
"I have found the courage to face death—twice, if I must."
The kor track hartebeests in hopes of finding magic to help fight the Eldrazi.
No one spoke. There was no need. The threat of the Eldrazi presented a simple choice: lay down your weapons and die for nothing, or hold them fast and die for something.
"Hold fast the line! Either we stop them here or we wake up in their guts!" —Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate
The kor's most righteous dead are given the greatest reward: an eternity tied to the land they so cherish.
In truth, her own faith was gone, trodden in Ulamog's wake. She pantomimed the blessing in the hope that it would inspire others to continue to struggle.
"The mighty rely solely on their strength. They are shocked when we do the same." —Tars Olan, kor world-gift
A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it.
"The vampires knew what was coming. I know it. And they did nothing. They deserve to feel the same agony they've caused all of us." —Anitan, Ondu cleric
"'Invincible' is just a word." —Gideon Jura
Lands ravaged, cities in ruins, so many lives sacrificed, and yet there was no other word for it but victory.
As the hedrons began to coalesce into colossal Eldrazi superstructures, the griffins were forced to seek new territory lest their aeries be crushed between the massive stone monoliths.
"If destiny's champions have arisen to fight the Ancient Ones, then let me, too, do my part." —Ravuel of Graypelt
His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn.
Those who seek to disturb the harmony of life will see their instruments taken from them.
If you want to kill a lot of goblins, just make sure your defenses look like fun.
She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power.
"I tried to tell her to stay behind, that this fight was too dangerous. I spent the next hour tied to the rafters." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
After encasing it in a paralyzing beam of light, the angel studied the Eldrazi as a child would study a bug, curiously and without fear.
"I was told these were standard issue. Do I look standard to you?"
"There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy."
The Singing City was silent, the pathway stones were still, and the winds of the Howling Spire ceased.
"I should have died that day, but I suffered not a scratch. I awoke in a lake of blood, none of it apparently my own." —The War Diaries
"What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error." —The Invokers' Tales
Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses.
"Whatever the Eldrazi's purpose is, it has nothing to do with something so insignificant as us." —Nirthu, lone missionary
"The brood spread far faster than we could kill it. I fear the worst is yet to come." —The War Diaries
No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.
Your pleas for death shall go unheard.
"I believed in a beautiful god. But this is the true face of the divine." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
The barest taste of Eldrazi power shatters both realms and identities.
"The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
www.MagicTheGathering.com
Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
Each commander looked at the others and wondered who would be first to break the alliance.
"Great peril demands formidable weaponry." —Urza
"Don't laugh. It works."
No spot in nature is truly barren.
Fouler than a necromancer's kiss. —Jamuraan expression
He could find no strength left to budge, no power left to fight, no will left to live. Luckily, they could find him.
"Unless you like the idea of becoming some goblin's lunch, get up and move!"
As Phyrexians descended, Multani paused to reflect on the beauty that might never be seen again.
"Fire is the universal language." —Jhoira, master artificer
Effective use of terrain is a lesson good commanders learn quickly.
They stop for nothing, not even the end of a battle.
"I've journeyed across Dominaria. Phyrexians are everywhere. Plague is everywhere. There's no place left to hide."
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
An audience of one with the malice of thousands.
Death is a generous author, always willing to grant a stirring final chapter.
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal.
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
"Have no illusions," Volrath warned Greven, "about free will."
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew." —Kaervek
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus the Grand Evolution began." —Phyrexian Scriptures
The key did not work on a single lock, yet it opened many doors.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die. —Onean children's rhyme
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death." —Phyrexian progress notes
"The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough." —Phyrexian progress notes
"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness." —Phyrexian progress notes
"Father of Machines! Your filigree gaze carves us, and the scars dance upon our grateful flesh." —Phyrexian Scriptures
With limited resources and near unlimited time, Kerrick used parts from one beast to build another.
"Gix doesn't want a people to rule but puppets to entertain his madness." —Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
"The first stage of the illness: rash and nausea." —Phyrexian progress notes
After encountering them, Squee finally lost his appetite for bugs.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
They exist to cease.
"We move because the earth does." —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory.
An eye closes. A race awakens.
The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away.
Crafted by lullmages and bound to the land, it alters itself to match the tumultuous terrain.
"The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness."
Few can catch it without losing a finger.
The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood.
"Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it.
"Now that it has woken up and wandered off, we should go see what it was guarding." —Gotzen, Bulwark explorer
By hammer forged, and by hammer undone.
During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death.
"After years of study, I've learned an important lesson: the relics we watch may be watching us back." —Anowon, the Ruin Sage
"The sun was born within its coils, but it fled to the sky. The wurm hungers for its child, and the world will bear its loss." —Screed of the Mul Daya
He calls on the forests for counsel and summons the earth to his cause.
"If you climb Skyfang Peak, avoid the pass. Generations of apes made that trail, and they don't tolerate trespassers." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
Its vast network of roots and vines keeps it aware of distant dangers.
The Tajuru elves devised ways to let the forest defend itself.
It gathers against the coming storm.
"On this plane, the use of magic can provoke a ferocious reprisal from nature. Whoever the Eldrazi were, their relics left Zendikar forever enraged." —Jace Beleren
Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts.
"I care nothing for treasure. The land beckons me, and I cannot rest until my feet have touched every inch of it."
"This world will not be tamed."
He'll cleave wood and bone alike to carve a path for his allies.
Creatures of the air wisely avoid the darkest regions of Guul Draz—which is why grappler spiders inhabit the few places touched by the sun's rays.
The instinct for survival makes enemies of all.
An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities.
"My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours." —Saidah, Joraga hunter
The Mul Daya elves reject their Tajuru kin, calling them arrogant tree-binders who think the roots serve the canopy.
Having lost their minds, they now want yours.
"I like it here. You always get a little more for your mana." —Chandra Nalaar
"The trembling lands ruptured, leaving an open door for things from below to emerge." —Screed of the Mul Daya
In his last seconds, Remhas regretted using his most powerful spell.
A shrine to unchecked desire.
Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down.
The goblin fancied himself a rider. The lizard was happy with its new flail.
Astride the bucking creature, Gribble hurtled down the mountainside while his Grotag brethren cheered. It was at that moment that legend of the Skrill Tamer was born.
"Cast out by my tribe, I am a pariah trapped in this mammal's carcass. Only my true kin hear my cries."
"I see the weaknesses you hide even from yourself."
"Cosi has many followers. Even the volcano finds a way to do his bidding." —Zakken, Enclave cleric
"Swords may sunder. Shields may fail. My will is stronger than steel, and my flesh and bone far more deadly."
"We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once." —Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain
"It's gone mad! Loose the chains and save what you can!"
"No need for a hurda? How about these maps to recently discovered tombs? Or these vials of invisible potion? Very fancy . . ."
"Before I hire new recruits, I test how long they can hold their breath. You'd be surprised how often it comes up." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
"They search for treasures that wash up from the depths. Tracking one could lead you to riches. Or in circles." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
She wields a blade as bloodthirsty and elegant as herself.
Pulse trackers terrorize adventurers, driving them through the jungle toward certain death at the gates of Malakir.
As the bridge snapped, Berko was sure he heard the swamp laughing at him.
Each of Malakir's great families boasts a contingent of nulls appropriate to its rank in society.
"You know how to tell a sapling explorer from an old hardhead? See which one mistakes a swarm of jagwasps for the setting sun." —Chadir the Navigator
The shadow of the candle looms tall even as its light grows dim.
Many venture out to hunt for treasures. Others lie in wait to hunt the hunters.
Novice explorers can mistake the acid-carved stone lairs for ancient ruins. They rarely survive to learn better.
His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death.
"You always have a choice. That doesn't mean you always have a good choice." —Alubri, Guul Draz gatekeeper
"I don't do tactics. I don't do guard duty. I do damage. Take it or leave it."
"So many have died in search of that map. And now it appears in the hands of the arrogant child Chandra Nalaar."
His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both.
"The flow is diverted. Your path is clear. What are you waiting for—the cave to bid you welcome?" —Maizah Shere, Tazeem lullmage
"The longer the journey, the more one learns." —Isanke, Halimar seastalker
Ebb and flow, high tide and low, quick as sand and just as slow.
Surrakar grab things they don't want.
"I of all people know that memory is not a safe place to hide valuables." —Jace Beleren
"The Roil is destructive, but not random. It's Zendikar's way of revealing secrets." —Ilori, merfolk falconer
"The best expedition would be an entire team of me."
Using thermal updrafts and gravity currents, drakes eat and sleep in the air. Some never touch the ground from birth until death.
He makes his home on the tallest mountain in Sejiri, where the vista is as endless as his patience.
The Jwari winds undo reality as easily as they scatter a pile of leaves.
"The wind smells of misfortune. Check your knots." —Anitan, Ondu cleric
"Assume everything wants to kill you. At the very least, assume everything wants what's in your pack."
"If this world could make a wish, it would be to survive the parasites who loot its treasures and threaten its life force." —Saidah, Joraga hunter
"Why fill pockets with gold when you can fill hearts with conviction?"
The Forsaken Ones haunt the ruins that flicker in and out of the spirit realm. Such sites are hard to find and even harder to loot.
Zendikar is a brutal taskmaster, but sometimes it offers unexpected solace.
"We stand between the jaws of chaos and the mantle of order."
"Give me a sturdy rope over the advice of any so-called expert. I can thread the dark wilds better than anyone."
In Zendikar, today's grassland could be tomorrow's jungle, and hunting grounds change as quickly as the weather.
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
Carving lines through the sky, kite sailors map trails for the pilgrims below to follow.
Expeditionary houses are notorious for their rivalries. But when adventurers meet in the wilderness, the instinct for mutual survival outweighs petty grudges.
Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear.
"I toiled in Kazuul's mines when I was eight. I think I'm tough enough for a little hiking."
"We're making progress, but its desire to explore still far exceeds its ability." —Amadi, Halimar griffin-master
"Murasan hurdas were too aggressive to tolerate a harness, so we put them on guard duty. Now the bandits can't get within spitting distance of us." —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
Until Emeria is freed, he raises his sword in her name.
"Your creations are effective, Sheoldred, but we must unite the flesh, not merely flay it." —Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite
The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it.
It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis.
"Not all paths are found on the forest floor."
Sometimes the cannoneer must become the cannonball.
"We must all push through the pain to heal our world." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts.
"A river of lava is just another river to cross."
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." -Oracle en-Vec
...but the price of Mangaras's freedom was Asmira's life.
The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood.
You may enter the city—once the toll is paid.
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough. —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within. -Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
Leylines branch out from its foundation like roots from a tree. These draw mana from every region and welcome all living things into its verdant chambers.
May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men. —Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription
Arriving home, he suddenly longed for the bloodsoaked battlefields behind him.
Built in honor of Alara's creatures, the ziggurat vanished long ago. When Progenitus awakened, the temple emerged again.
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more." —Mogg march
Phage became both executioner and savior, helping others to the same rebirth she had found.
Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.
"Finding a true heartstone is even harder than finding a true heart." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air." —Adom Capashen, Benalish hero
The end of evolution.
"The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee." —Llanach, Skyshroud ranger
Within weeks, more slivers nested in Otaria than ever existed on Rath.
"When a sliver of this breed enters the hive, the others claw each other in frenzied fits, thereby ensuring their rapid growth." —Rukarumel, field journal
Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.
Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the Weatherlight.
"Sure, I've seen agents of the Cabal here and there. Well, not here, and certainly not in any of the sliver labs. Oh dear, I've said too much." —Apprentice researcher
Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other." Mirri: "After they're done trying to kill us, all right?"
"We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole."
"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry." —Mogg children's rhyme
The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel.
Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.
The directors of the Riptide Project wanted instant results on the sliver experiments. They got their wish.
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
"The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world." —Freyalise
Gerrard looked all around for the source of the mysterious pulse, and at that moment the slivers boiled forth from the crevasses.
The Arturan conjurers took the strange, alien fossil and patterned their own twisted creations in its image.
"One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger.
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
Liliana developed a fondness for the moment when roaring becomes squealing.
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
"The bigger they are, the faster they rot."
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize." —Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak.
"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?" —Xathrid demon
Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.
Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.
"Graveyards are sacrilege! A waste of perfectly good bones." —Keren-Dur, necromancer lord
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal."
"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
Nature doesn't walk.
"Words lie. People lie. The land tells the truth."
Nature's strength outlives the strong.
Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his feet be so thirsty?
Hatred outlives the hateful.
Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare.
An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot.
The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days.
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive." —Elvish refugee
"She is truly Wirewood's child now." —Elvish refugee
It teaches you to play dead.
Nature twists knots stronger than any rope.
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
"I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine." —Sorin Markov
"Until this expedition is done, that blade is your guardian, your liberator, and your best friend all rolled into one." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
It's much easier to list the places they haven't been.
"We suffer uneasy ground, unstable alliances, and unpredictable magic. Something you can truly trust is worth more than a chest of gold." —Nikou, Joraga bard
A fragment of ancient power lost in the heart of Ora Ondar.
"I don't care when the hedrons awoke. Why is the question that really matters." —Anowon, the Ruin Sage
Part tool, part weapon, part of the kor.
"I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
"Gods don't die. They merely slumber." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"In these bloodstains I will find the fingerprints of our oppressors." —Anowon, the Ruin Sage
An explorer's essentials in a wild world.
Expeditions follow the paths it leaves in its wake.
"I've known true ferocity and power. Those brazen 'planar-walkers' have no idea what wild really means." —Chadir the Navigator
The lone wolf dies alone.
"You can't trust your eyes. A tree might look healthy, but its insides tell a different tale." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
Its territory is defined by wherever it is at the moment.
Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil.
"The blood of the forest is beholden to no one." —Nissa Revane
Instead of adapting to its environment, it adapts its environment to itself.
"Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs." —Zurdi, goblin shortcutter
Some elves believe that their survival instincts are born of many cycles of reincarnation.
"Sheath your swords! Cudgels only. I see a new pair of waterproof trek boots slithering away." —Nablus, North Hada trapper
There are many ruins, but there used to be many more.
"When the land is angry, so are they." —Nissa Revane
"A might spell can be handy against baloths, giants, kraken, the Roil—or if you lose your bearings in the woods." —Chadir the Navigator
"I'm strong enough to survive alone. I'm smart enough to want companions at my side."
"Nissa will save the elves, but only the ones who have proved their worth."
When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back.
Its scales contain the essence of thousands of lotus blooms.
Adventuring bards recite Chanter's Epics, never-ending tales that keep their comrades' minds alert to danger.
The Roil redraws the world as it passes, leaving only the hedrons unchanged.
The other tribes call them fanatics, but none deny that the Mul Daya elves have an iron-strong bond to some force greater than themselves.
"Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
"The elders say Zendikar has no safe, peaceful places. How would they know? They've never looked."
"Surely we could tame something besides hurdas and pillarfield oxen!" —Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk.
"Danger! Danger! Come out of the safety of your holes!"
A long way down is shorter than you think.
Goblins are more aggressive with a crowd to cheer them on.
Once thrown, twice burned.
Goblin lessons include the 2,071 tips for survival. Frek only remembered 2,070.
"Since when did 'AIIIEEEE!' become a negotiation tactic?" —Nikou, Joraga bard
"Now I know why they call it Shatterskull Pass. Rocks fell all night like hammers smashing an anvil. It's no wonder the giants are angry all the time." —Mitra, Bala Ged missionary
"The land here seems to go out of its way to kill you." —Chandra Nalaar
Not every intelligent being is interested in treasure and lost knowledge . . . or even the basics of speech.
"Kor armorers buy the scales and claws. Elf oracles buy the rest." —Nablus, North Hada trapper
"Fire is my accomplice. For enough coin, it can be yours as well."
"Only the foolhardy would venture into the Akoum Mountains without a lullmage to tame the raging rocks and living fires." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit.
"Lighting a fire needs kindling and heat. You be the kindling. I'll bring the heat." —Chandra Nalaar
On expeditions, minotaurs are worth their weight in gold. Fortunately for their paymasters, most minotaurs don't know how much they weigh.
"Do you smell something burning?"
He gets paid by the axe.
There is no fondness between the hound and its master. There is only a common appreciation of the hunt.
War paint made from kolya fruit heightens senses and lessens fear. Unfortunately, fear is usually what keeps you alive.
"Goblins are cheap, but be careful. It's a lot easier to steal from a corpse than a customer." —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
"I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places."
"Quit pontificating, mage. The last thing we want to do is give it more hot air." —Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate
Where life and force collide.
"This is why I hate settlements. They lull you into a false sense of security." —Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist
Those who dare stand in its path are either brave or mindless. Or in the case of goblins, both.
The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death.
When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination.
His spark lost, he plots revenge upon the plane whose corrupting mana fractured his soul.
"He asked if I had work for him. No wasn't the right answer." —Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House
The traps around the vampire city of Malakir hint at the thirst of its inhabitants.
"Is there anything in Guul Draz that doesn't suck the life out of you?" —Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword
Only a bloodchief can create vampires. The rest sire nulls, who become mindless beasts in their former bodies.
"Guard your thoughts. You never know who might wish to take them from you." —Kalitas, Bloodchief of Ghet
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize." —Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
Hanging on the walls of his lair, the fallen halos cast his depravity in everlasting light.
"When exploring the darkest regions, wickedness can be the best accomplice of all."
The creatures of Zendikar are opportunists, eating whatever is available to them. Like goblins. Or boats.
"A creature's bloodscent is a beacon that cannot be disguised."
Few among the living understand just how much of their world is shaped by the ruins of the dead.
Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless.
"You may enter the city—once the toll is paid."
"The vampires of this world don't know the pleasures of hunger. They gorge themselves without savoring the kill." —Sorin Markov
"Brave scar or unfortunate tale? It all depends on your pain threshold."
"The land is swollen with mana, cursed relics, and secrets. If you puncture it, you never know what will burst out." —Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter
The tender light of the living quickens the pulse of the dead.
A wraith is a tale of brutal slaying told anew whenever it finds a victim.
A drop now is all he needs to find you later.
"The best spot to hook one is right behind the gills." —Rana Cloudwake, kor skyfisher
"The sky hedrons are covered with tern nests. It's as though the birds have given up on the land altogether." —Ilori, merfolk falconer
Messenger, weapon, friend.
"Trapmaking is an art. The trap is a corporeal riddle, a battle of wits between its creator and whatever it lures inside."
"At some point, every trapfinder will lose a hunk of flesh. It's just a question of how much—and whether it'll grow back." —Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder
"I don't need to have the perfect plan. My foe just has to have an imperfect one." —Jace Beleren
Most inhabitants of Zendikar have given up on the idea of an accurate map.
"Even if the sphinxes do know the location of every relic, getting one to talk is harder than just searching yourself." —Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House
"There's a hole in your plan." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"Hold up your spears. And try not to look like food." —Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword
"It's like a reef that runs aground on ships." —Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad
"The sky is like another sea. It teems with currents, life, and endless possibility."
"He's a living library. He remembers everything our band of explorers has seen, and we can use that to our advantage." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
A vortex that devours everything—even the souls of the living.
"Any good prospector must sift the gold from the sand."
The Halimar Sea Caves are both the breeding ground of giant squids and the dumping ground of hardened criminals.
"Life is a maze. This is one of its dead ends." —Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage
"Do they seek knowledge or wealth? Are they bandits or benefactors? It depends on who is chanting the tale." —Nikou, Joraga bard
"Many voices are needed to quiet this land."
When Lorthos emerges from his deepwater realm, the tides bow to his will and the coastline cowers in his presence.
At low tide it slumbers. At high tide it devours.
Suddenly, Zurdi didn't care about treasure, glory, food . . . or the drakes circling above.
A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort.
"Roil tide! Roil tide! Tie yourselves down!"
Hedrons perplex minds both great and small.
To explorers, "point man" is a polite way of saying "gomazoa fodder."
She watches the chaos created by the Roil, seeking strength in the patterns of anarchy.
Zendikar's volatile mana is the basis for many spectacular spells—and some equally astonishing failures.
"Some merfolk choose to rest their fins in the water. I believe wisdom exists not only where we were born but where we were told not to go."
"Why fight the world when you know who will win?" —Nissa Revane
The merfolk call the sky goddess Emeria. The kor call her Kamsa. The two races agree on little except that she offers many blessings to the faithful.
Nothing quickens the predator's blood like the unfamiliar scents of new hunting grounds and the mewling cries of new prey.
"Even land dwellers may call for Emeria's grace in times of need." —Emeria's Creed
"Should you fall in the wilds, lift your voice to the Sky Realm. The one who answers will be your salvation." —Emeria's Creed
Each spike is poisoned—the trapmaker's idea of mercy.
These stubborn and unpredictable oxen inspire the plains nomads' most colorful curses.
A cleric's true balm is the confidence he inspires in his compatriots.
Most spirits are chained to this world by their despair, but he remains tethered by his hope for better days.
Explorers may find ways into the Sky Ruin, but they find its secrets well protected by shifting hedrons and Roil winds.
"A good explorer has to be as slippery as a gomazoa, as tough as a scute bug, and luckier than a ten-fingered trapfinder." —Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder
The more who rely on him, the more resolute he becomes.
"Honor this place, for our children's children will stand here and speak these same words again." —Ayli, Kamsa cleric
"Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time."
"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."
"We take only what we need to survive. Believe me, you will need this."
"For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal."
"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."
Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten.
"If you hire a sell-sword, you'd better watch your back. Hire me, and I'll watch it for you."
No more shall the righteous cower before evil.
"If survival is a game, I've seen the winner." —Hazir, Sejiri cartographer
When the earth shudders, the sky overflows.
"Goddess, grant us light to banish the world's shadows." —Prayer to Kamsa
"I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine." —Sorin Markov
"The crossing demands singular focus. Your life consists of these ropes, these hooks, and these rocky crags. Your past is miles below."
Upon such armor, even a mountain would break.
"Not too bright, but good enough for the job required—carrying and walking in a straight line." —Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad
"Trust me, your lost fingers and toes are nothing compared to the lost treasures of Sejiri." —Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader
"We prepare for the known with daggers, rations, rope, and pitons. But we also prepare for the unknown with billycat tails, pikku roots, hedron chips . . ."
"Resignedly beneath the sky/The melancholy waters lie./So blend the turrets and shadows there/That all seem pendulous in air,/While from a proud tower in town/Death looks gigantically down." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The City in the Sea"
"To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery." —Emily Dickinson
"'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,/ And robes the mountain in its azure hue." —Thomas Campbell, "Pleasures of Hope"
"Look deep into the Grail, and see there what you desire most." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"Play the song of he who delivered us. Play the song of Feroz." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"Three such creatures stood burning at the crest of the hill. Only seconds later, the fireball struck our front line." —Lydia, Countess Brellis
After the Battle of Pitdown, Lady Ursnell fashioned the first such instrument out of Lord Ursnell's left leg.
For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.
An explorer of the Æther, Tuknir often discovers himself in the most unusual physical realms.
"How can you accuse me of evil? Though these deeds be unsavory, no one will argue: good shall follow from them."
Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom.
Her given name has been lost in the mists of time. Legend says that her silent vigil will one day be ended by the one who, pure of heart and spirit, calls out that name again.
Sunastian has roots in both sorcery and swordplay; he has learned never to depend too heavily on the latter.
"What can be a stronger shield than concealment? Have you ever defeated an enemy you didn't know existed?" —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon?
"Remember Sir Shandlar! Remember and stand firm!" —rallying cry of the Eberyn militia
"Political violence is a perfectly legitimate answer to the persecution handed down by dignitaries of the state."
Ramirez DePietro is a most flamboyant pirate. Be careful not to believe his tall tales, especially when you ask his age.
"On the field of honor, a soldier need have no fear."
We all know the legend: Pavel wanders the realms, helping those in greatest need. But is this a measure of his generosity, or of his obligation to atone?
Marhault Elsdragon follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart.
Livonya's own nature is a matter of mystery. Nothing is known for sure, merely rumors of unearthly stealth, and unholy alliances.
"I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone." —A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca
"When milady was young, the sight of a rainbow would fill her soul with peace. As she grew, she learned to share her rapture with others." —Lady Gabriella
"Two of my Warriors found that the creature was dangerous not only in combat, but also in simple proximity." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
Once, the order of the Closed Fist reached throughout the Kb'Briann Highlands. Now, Jerrard alone remains to uphold their standard.
Mightiest of the cat warriors, Jedit Ojanen forsook the forests of his tribe and took service with the Robaran Mercenaries, rising through their ranks to lead them in the battle for Efrava.
"You would never guess, at the terrifying sight of the man, that Hunding was as charming a companion as one could wish for."
Hail from Tolaria the ever changing 'Dane.
Urborg became the final resting place of many swordsmen of renown, their steel outmatched by the wiles of Gwendlyn.
Thundering down from Hammerheim, no foe could slow Bartel's charge.
He is devious and cunning, in both appearance and deed. Beware the Warbeard, for this brute bites as well as he barks!
"Battles no longer served a purpose in Karakas." —Angus Mackenzie, Diary
"Those of faith are those of strength." —Autumn Willow
Trip wire, hooked poles, and sunken pits were commonly used to unhorse riders during the Three Kingdoms period.
"Trying to meet a worthy man in the wrong way is as bad as closing the door on an invited guest." —Mencius, a Chinese philosopher
"Unless you enter the tiger's lair, you cannot get hold of the tiger's cubs." —Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the scryb were very funny anymore.
"All men have their appointed time; that's something no horse can change." —Liu Bei, after being told that the Dilu brings its master ill fortune
Through his allies, Meng Huo commanded several hundred thousand troops composed of cavalry, rattan-armored warriors, infantry, naked men with swords, and wild animals.
The stubborn Meng Huo was captured and released by Kongming seven times before finally surrendering.
The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger.
"Faeries talk all in riddles and tricky bits, 'cept the Nobles. Now, there's some straight talkers." —Joskun, An-Havva Constable
They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out." —Ailheen, Speaker of the Council
". . . The kingdoms three are now the stuff of dream,/ For men to ponder, past all praise or blame."
The only thing worse than a minotaur with an axe is an angry minotaur with an axe.
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer,/ Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
Kher Keep is unique among fortresses: impervious to aerial assault but defenseless from the ground.
The Taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common Kobold.
"One for all, all for one; we strike first, and then you're done!" —Oath of the Kobold Musketeers
"Joining this army is easy, boy. Just survive your first battle."
The minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
The frost giants have been out in the cold a long, long time, but they have their rage to keep them warm.
"The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,/ Her ashes new-create another heir/ As great in admiration as herself." —William Shakespeare, King Henry the Eighth.
Brimstone marks this drake's territory. Unfortunately for travelers, all of the Burning Isles smell likewise.
"With fire he broke the battle at Bowang . . . . Striking fear deep into Cao Cao's soul, thus Kongming scored a coup at his debut."
Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone.
"Kobolds are harmless." —Bearand the Bold, epitaph
When the sky's rain has turned to fire, what will put it out?
"The Spirit Crafters sing of all our people. They sing of those lost, of those found, and of those who are yet to be." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"The Ancestors are the wisdom of the tribe and the soul of the Homelands. I am eternally in their debt." —Taysir
"To send the common people to war untrained is to throw them away." —Confucius, The Analects (trans. Lau)
At the battle of Chang'an, Ma Chao defeated the two generals Cao Cao sent to guard the pass but was forced to flee when Cao Cao's trickery turned his own ally against him.
Wei won the battle of Hefei when Zhang Liao defeated Sun Quan and then foiled a Wu scheme to incite rebellion.
Cao Cao was more concerned with capabilities than lineage. He excelled at recruiting and retaining men of talent to serve him.
"An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss." —Ernest Renan, Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse
At the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shao by raiding his grain depot, leaving him with no way to feed his troops.
These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana.
"High on a throne of royal state . . . insatiate to pursue vain war with heav'n." —John Milton, Paradise Lost
One who goes unpunished never learns. —Greek proverb
The voices of the dead ring in the heart long after they have faded from the ears.
Cao Cao was haunted to death by the ghosts of the empresses and other high courtiers he had murdered.
"The burst of strength brought on by this plague should not be mistaken for a sign of renewed health." —Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid
"But it was a year of dearth. People were reduced to eating leaves of jujube trees. Corpses were seen everywhere in the countryside."
"Lieutenants dishonored, corpses carted home; The general raises troops again to take revenge."
"Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes,/ And screams of horror rend th' affrighted skies." —Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock
"'War is no picnic,' my father liked to say. But the ants seemed to disagree." —General Chanek Valteroth
Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master.
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
Both Wu and Wei warships patrolled the Yangtze River, the natural border between the two kingdoms.
At the second battle of Ruxu, the brave Wu general Gan Ning raided Cao Cao's camp of 400,000 men with only 100 cavalry. Not a single man or horse was lost.
"One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze."
"Plans evolved within the tent decide a victory 1,000 li away."
"It's nice to see a sister Dwarf in a position of such power, but why'd it have to be one of those seafaring muleheads?" —Halina, Dwarven Trader
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then felt lifeless to the ground.
As the Wu chief commander, Lu Meng conquered Shu-held Jingzhou in 219 by disguising soldiers as merchants on boats filled with hiding troops.
"I doubt any labyrinth minotaurs still live—but then again, we minotaurs are stubborn beings." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"The potential for change lies in all things. Know a thing's nature, know its possibilities, and know it anew." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"Leadership, not numbers, determines victory." —A Wu commander, before his 5,000 troops forced 15,000 Wei troops to retreat from Ruxu
Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools.
The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.
At Red Cliffs, Kongming and Zhou Yu each wrote his plan for defeating Wei on the palm of his hand. They laughed as they both revealed the same word, "Fire."
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return." —William Shakespeare, King Richard the Second
The rising oceans brought new lakes—and new terrors—to Terisiare. The Explorers found their ancient enemies spawning everywhere.
Zhang Fei's uncharacteristic alliance with a defeated Riverlands general, Yan Yan, allowed Shu forces to advance through forty-five Riverlands strongpoints with no casualties.
As many attackers were dazzled by the wall's beauty as were halted by its force.
During Kongming's campaigns against the Wei, his Shu troops rotated from the battlefront to the fields every hundred days.
Throughout the three kingdoms, important generals were often guarded by small groups of expert soldiers known as "elite companions."
In establishing the Shu kingdom, Liu Bei's forces fought against Ma Chao at Chengdu. Eventually, Ma Chao surrendered and became one of Liu Bei's Tiger Generals.
"We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood. . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day." —Peach Garden Oath
The mourning families of commanders and generals were often given land, valuables, or money to compensate for their losses.
"Only wisdom and virtue can truly win men's devotion." —Liu Bei
"If you do it right, they'll never know what hit them." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height—Had never been, nor ever was again."
The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians, were created to protect the innocent and faithful. Some say their actions are above the law.
"Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"He Guan Yu covered the ground on a thousand-li horse;/ With dragon blade he took each pass by force."
"All warfare is based on deception." —Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)
Though they often bore little greater charm than the demons they battled, exorcists were always welcome in Scarwood.
Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse.
The clouds broke and the sun's rays burst forth; each foul beast in its turn faltered, and was gone.
Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents.
"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity." —D'Avenant proverb
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.
Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.
Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria.
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.
It responds with unnatural precision.
As the fifth sun joins the other four, new abilities awaken in the creatures of Mirrodin.
Metal permeates the marrow of every bone in Mephidross—except one.
The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
All Auriok children know the tale, "Bolgri and the Long Day of Squashing."
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.
When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator.
The Moriok saw the myr as fellow scavengers, never knowing just who the myr were scavenging for.
The goblins didn't think of the myr at all, which allowed the myr to observe everywhere unhindered.
The leonin thought of the myr as omens, never imagining the sinister fate they foretold.
"All memory of your existence will be wiped from reality. You will die, and no one will mourn." —Memnarch
"Did it have this shape upon Mirrodin's creation, or did some inconceivable force shape the unshapable?" —Pontifex, elder researcher
The elves thought of the myr as minor threats, just as the myr thought of the elves.
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields.
"When in doubt, kill 'em twice."
Mimics don't need perfect disguises. They need only the perfect victims: the naive, the young, or the poor of sight.
Underneath the cities of Esper are cycles of life unseen by those who feed them.
"Frozen, we watched the funnel pluck up three of the goats—pook! pook! pook!—before we ran for the wadi." —Travelogue of Najat
The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance.
Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths.
"When the wielder is strong enough, any sword will do." —Kresh the Bloodbraided
Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the Predator crashing into his stronghold."
"Their hopes dashed on our shields! Their victory slashed by our swords!"
The unit of measurement used to chart a cerodon's growth is "persons consumed."
Sisay discovered that the mirrored hull of the Weatherlight could be used as a defensive weapon.
It holds motionless vigil, watching Naya in silence through the screen of the whitecover. When it senses anything amiss, it launches forward with the uncanny sound of torn fog.
"Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free." —Rakka Mar
When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
Kamahl left the violence of his former life behind him, but he still believes in the power of muscle.
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
In its center is a single red ant, a queen that regulates the hive's movements.
In the gardens of the centaurs, many travelers have mysteriously vanished while admiring the elaborate topiaries.
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"Surely we could tame something besides hurdas and pillarfield oxen!" —Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
"Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame."
In the smoldering ashes of Shiv, a few dragons strive to rebuild their native land. The rest seek any opportunity to restore the broken pride of their race.
"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the Predator. "It is Greven's mind manifest."
On Jund, even the landscape is a deadly hunter. Volcanoes, tar pits, and rock slides seem to prey upon the living.
"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
"Who says lightning never strikes twice?" —Storm shaman
"Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once." —Matoc, lavamancer
They certainly are.
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
Their rage can grow to such proportions that they explode in a cloud of fire.
"Even the threat of power has power." —Jeska, warrior adept
In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts.
"The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
Fire never dies alone.
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.
It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.
As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
"Surrender your soul to me."
"My priests swore loyalty to the Cabal not until death, but beyond it." —Cabal Patriarch
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
A drop of humanity for a sea of power.
Plague and death wrapped in one convenient package.
Where the nefashu pass, blood rolls like a silk carpet.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair.
"A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize." —Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words
Sometimes you go to hell, and sometimes hell comes to you.
Oddly, no one questioned the Cabal's wisdom in hiring a zombie to work at the cemetery.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
"If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it." —Volrath
Few Cabal fighters fear death. They fear what follows it.
Grieve for the soul in death dishonored. —Shadow Guild saying
Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.
His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
"A horrible sight, yes, but the sounds . . . Its twanging tendons and grinding gears are almost musical." —Brudiclad, Telchor engineer
Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
"I see their moral dilemmas. I see their raw courage. I see their self-sacrifice. I see our victory."
"The secret to invention is to see something in your mind, then find where it hides in the world."
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."
"Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels."
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
Designed to restrain petty thoughts, but used to repress entire empires.
"What separates us from mere beasts is the capacity for self-improvement."
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominaria itself a casualty of war.
The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container.
Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret.
The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search.
"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."
Apes can be gentle, contemplative beasts—but context is everything.
At the first sign of enemy scouts, Jula grinned and strapped on his diplomacy helmet.
To some mages, the meaning of life is less important than how much is left.
2009 Vintage Championship Winner
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master.
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again." —Karn, silver golem
"My masterpiece is complete—and so shall be my triumph." —Saldrath, master artificer
In its heart lies the secret of immortality.
It disables with pinpoint accuracy.
Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.
As the glass shattered, forgotten realities and dead memories came flooding back.
Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
A banner for bonds of blood or belief.
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
"We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
"Sometimes I wonder if our weapons and armor are a step backward." —Soron, rhox pikemaster
Bears aren't always as strong and as mean as you imagine. Some are even stronger and meaner.
"This wound shall be like the chills of winter: swiftly forgotten when spring shoots rise."
Nature grows solutions to its problems.
"The desire for its magic horn inspires such bloodthirsty greed that all who see the unicorn will kill to possess it." —Dionus, elvish archdruid
"When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?" —Dionus, elvish archdruid
Like nature, the fern spirals back on itself, eternally seeking its own center.
If you want to destroy something lifeless, make it live.
The more you struggle against its coils, the tighter they get.
"I can't claim to hunt all creatures. There are some things in the jungle that simply can't be hunted." —Garruk Wildspeaker
May your weapon be no sword forged. May your armor be no metal wrought. —Elvish saying
All are prey to the eyes of the wild.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"Do not fire upon it—it is bad luck. And a waste of arrows." —Alera Benath, Kalonian ranger
The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.
Ineffable and incorruptible.
The giant spider's silk naturally resists gravity, almost weaving itself as it blankets the forest canopy.
"I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else." —Lord Hilneth
Every living thing has roots in nature. Sometimes nature gets its roots into you.
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
After the oryx dies, its flesh returns to the earth, but its emerald bones remain as a tribute to the forest.
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
He knows the name of every elf born in the last four centuries. More importantly, they all know his.
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind." —Ramal, sage of Westgate
"I've seen the fully grown ones tear a baloth to gory ribbons in seconds." —Kivi, thornberry harvester
Following the sun's cycle, harvest season comes once a year—unless the druids bid the sun behave otherwise.
"Only fools and bandits use roads."
Each feather in its tail is a souvenir of an exotic land, a memory condensed in hue.
The druids of Mazar treat each seedcone with respect for the warrior it will become.
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants." —Borzard, exterminator captain
The mapmaker scowled. He sighed, unrolled his parchment, and painted a large black blob where the Eternal Meadow was once marked.
Mercy is for those who keep their distance.
Viashino lack the majesty of their draconic ancestors, but they lash out with equal rage and twice the spite.
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack. They need signals to tell them when to stop.
A typical day for a giant. A momentous event for a goat.
Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Days of planning. Weeks of building. Months of perfecting. Seconds of smashing.
"Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you." —Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?" —Chandra Nalaar
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."
"What do they see in the throes of panic? I'm not sure I want to know." —Kezim, prodigal pyromancer
"I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges." —Kamahl, pit fighter
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again.
"Catch!"
"Rage is a dangerous weapon. Your enemies will try to use your anger against you. Use it against them first." —Ajani Goldmane
"Let the gray-hairs keep their ravens and drakes. My familiar will be a reflection of me: bloodthirsty, with a predator's instinct." —Taivang, barbarian warlord
"Those who wish to invade our monastery, please take it up with my servant." —Chandra Nalaar
The shaman prowled the academy halls, shaking his head at the pomp and babble of the sages inside. He knew just the spell to liven the place up.
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
"We are goblinkind, heirs to the mountain empires of chieftains past. Rest is death to us, and arson is our call to war."
Most goblins get their turn firing the catapult, but few achieve the coveted title of Ammunition Holder.
The mage breathed in life-giving air and breathed out death-bringing fire.
Once a barbarian army has conquered a region, their shamans summon hellhounds that keep undesirables out and prisoners in.
They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well.
"You wish for great destruction? It is done, my master."
"We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side." "Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?" "Yes." "So shouldn't we—" "No."
Great generals inspire by example. Goblin chieftains inspire by electrifying the barracks.
Jariad burned the midnight oil, burned through scroll after scroll, and then burned down his laboratory.
They take a blood oath to die in battle. So far none have failed to fulfill the promise.
"Rage courses in every heart, yearning to betray its rational prison." —Sarkhan Vol
"Phirax of Blood Ridge has sent a war giant at us? What, do I have to spell it out for you? Kill the giant, scoop out its skull, and drive it back to Blood Ridge. Honestly, what kind of necromancer minions are you?" —Keren-Dur, necromancer lord
"For strength to have any meaning, there must also be . . . you."
The battle was over, but the carnage continued for days.
"Your life will set with the sun."
"I admit, I am a creature of the city. The sights, the nightly excitement, the abundance of fine drink . . ."
"Born under the moon, the second child will stumble on temptation and seek power in the dark places of the heart." —Codex of the Constellari
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work.
Whether the end comes swift or slow, it always comes too soon.
"You know I accept only one currency here, and yet you have sought me out. Why now do you hesitate?" —Xathrid demon
"Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed." —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.
"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them." —Volrath
"It's a vicious circle. Stress breeds pain. Pain breeds stress. It's simply beautiful, wouldn't you agree?" —Vradeen, vampire nocturnus
Its form never rests, propelled by some undetectable gale from beyond the gloom.
The nesting bats of Kelinore sleep soundly while the sun passes, nestled among their grisly collections.
Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled.
Oddly, no one questioned the Cabal's wisdom in hiring a zombie to work at the cemetery.
"Don't worry. I'm not going to deprive you of all your secrets. Just your most precious one." —Liliana Vess
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"I don't know who to pity more: those who flee from my presence or the damned who can withstand it."
The void is without substance but cuts like steel.
"Stop complaining. You can rest when you're dead. Oh—sorry." —Liliana Vess
The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power.
Even the noblest of intentions and strongest of wills inevitably crumble into dust.
A vampire enacts vengeance on the entire world, claiming her debt two tiny pinpricks at a time.
Every grave cradles a recruit.
She died in this swamp, and so will you.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
Like all priests, she gives her blessings only to those truly worthy of them.
"I've never understood why so many beings lumber around on the ground. There are three dimensions, yet they use only two."
A smaller cousin to the dragon, drakes are often seen at the side of powerful wizards who use them as airborne eyes and ears.
"I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid." —Lumi, goatherd
Mages routinely summon creatures from the Æther. It's only fair that they occasionally throw one back.
Imitation is the most dangerous form of flattery.
"The educated mind is heavy with lore and knowledge. It's also the most likely to collapse under its own weight." —Ambassador Laquatus
Genius is overrated, especially when it's someone else's.
Just when you thought you'd survived the first wave.
"The most disappointing thing about learning telepathy is finding out how boring people really are." —Teferi, fourth-level student
Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will.
"I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious." —Garild, merfolk mage
Some owls house the souls of archmages of ages past.
Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today.
"The construction of a defense is not accomplished by adding bricks." —Jace Beleren
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?" —Jace Beleren
"The sharks envy our ferocity. The eels envy our cunning."
Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it.
The horses of Scytha's army must be well trained. A thrown rider would fall miles before meeting the ground.
"Humanity has always envied the power of flight. So we took it." —Scytha, aeromage
"Illusion is a handy but fragile medium. Use it only in a pinch, or against the dim-witted." —Jace Beleren
It's a mistake to say turtles hide in their shells. They merely need time to contemplate how best to bite your head off.
"All consciousness is one, separated only by a thin veil of the physical." —Jace Beleren
"Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood." —Heidar, Rimewind master
"I'm one masterpiece away from ruling this pathetic world." —Saldrath, master artificer
Some wizards compete not to summon the most interesting creatures, but to create the most interesting aftereffects when a summons goes awry.
"The key to unlocking this puzzle is within you." —Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle
"If it has a brain, even a primitive one, we can most surely scramble it." —Garild, merfolk mage
Merfolk are best known for their subtle magic. But those who try to fight them in their own territory quickly realize that merfolk are hardly defenseless on the field of battle.
"Where are we? You must learn to ask more useful questions than that."
The shapeshifter mimics with a twin's esteem and a mirror's cruelty.
"The ground polluted floats with human gore, And human carnage taints the dreadful shore Fly swift the dangerous coast: let every ear Be stopp'd against the song! 'tis death to hear!" —Homer, The Odyssey, trans. Pope
"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab." —Joseph Conrad, The Mirror of the Sea
"This is a fine suit, armorsmith. I will be safe from harm. If only you could forge rings to mail the rest of my people . . ." —Lord Hilneth
"Truth is a straight, keen edge. There are no soft angles or rounded edges. To fight for truth, we must forge in steel."
"Courage is a proud and gleaming shield. It does not bend or hide from sight. To fight with courage, we must forge in steel."
"My motive is not vengeance but mercy. I deliver the soulless back to their severed souls."
"Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may take its course."
"At summer's end, the pegasus herd stampedes across the sky. Their silent footfalls taunt the clouds and bid the rains to come." —Stormfront fable
"One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance."
"A relic donation is suggested." "The suggestion is mandatory." —Temple signs
Hunters of every species on the savannah, silvercoats disdain camouflage in favor of total dominance of the food chain.
"All the wizardry in the world has to pass through one small and easily sealed door." —Ajani Goldmane
"Defending the citadel is easy. I just take these big fellows outside the main gate and let the enemy take a good long look." —Mastodon keeper
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
With one flap of her wings, the angel beat back the fires of war.
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.
When the rhoxes charge, everyone else knows which way to run.
Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you.
"I'm not nearly as bothered by being outnumbered as I am by their foul stench."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich.
She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.
The spoils of war are not measured only in gold and silver.
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
"Born under the sun, the first child will seek the foundation of honor and be fortified by its righteousness." —Codex of the Constellari
Even when fate is already written, there's always time to change the names.
Her gaze prevents the petty sins and her sword punishes the rest.
Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post.
"One's blade is only as sharp as one's conviction." —Ajani Goldmane
"Our law prohibits capital punishment. We believe even the gravest offenders have the chance to redeem themselves." —Torian Sha, soul warden
The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front.
Giants and pit spawn attempted to topple the cathedral's pillars. The fine grit of their remains still swirls in the breeze outside.
"We see clearly the error of your ways. It does not matter that you choose not to." —Urien of the Lightwielders
"I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see."
Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks.
"The meadow sprang up beneath me, and I perceived a path from our people's defeat to our highest glory."
"Until that day I cursed the angels, those uncaring lights in the sky. They rewarded my scorn with the gift of time, every year of which I've spent in devotion to their names." —Torian Sha, soul warden
"Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants." —Borzard, exterminator captain
"Your life will set with the sun."
The elves had entered a land like an open grave-an act of fortitude or folly?
Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness.
"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."
So many aven had died scouting the distant fronts that the knight-captains recruited Nayan falcons as couriers.
Soldiers who fought through Grixis learned to hit first, recite the prayer of Asha later.
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered." "Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."
"Sangrite is the dragon's beating heart. Little wonder, then, that so many fools' chests burst trying to contain it." —Sarkhan Vol
The knights were halfway through their precombat rites before they realized the foul brute meant to start without them.
It waits with absolute stillness. One might think it a statue if it weren't occasionally seen chewing on its victims.
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
"Too wary to charge, too prudent to serve. Not anymore." —Sedris, the Traitor King
"Etherium is limited. Innovation is not." —Tezzeret
Stormcallers came to appreciate the novelty of Jund's volcanic updrafts.
Bant mages still call to the heavens for aid, but angels are not the only ones who answer.
Wounded soldiers looked up, grateful for her appearance. But she passed over them, her eyes firmly on their foe.
"We are born soldiers. The call to battle is a homecoming."
"We must spread Bant's light before we are shadowed over."
It strides through the whitecover, mists in which even gargantuans can hide.
For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair.
The elves had entered a land like an open grave—an act of fortitude or folly?
"This is a new world and a new war. We need warriors who know chaos and how to combat it." —Lisha of the Azure
Death comes in the blink of an eye.
Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone.
"Look there—they carry that one upon a sedan chair. It must be their leader. Wait . . . Oh! Perhaps not." —Kaeda, aven scout
His name means "he who paints the earth red."
Every disaster holds mystery, for lack of a sane witness.
No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?"
They are the masters of your mind.
An unbound page is a riddle, free of cover and of context, a favorite token of the hegemon.
The wilder the frontier, the greater the need for a controlling hand.
The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows.
"Etherium clouded my eyes, clogged my ears, desensitized my skin. Now that I can feel, I can begin to learn."
Godtrackers found new pantheons of beast-gods beyond Naya's borders.
It crushes all underfoot, yet leaves no trace of its passage—no trampled debris, no flattened souls, not even a hoofprint.
"The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales." —Ranalus, vedalken heretic
The tips of her bolts are blunt, but her aim is deadly sharp.
For hours afterward, all they could see was the grisly silhouette of their master, screaming.
"Their hopes dashed on our shields! Their victory slashed by our swords!"
When a battlefield falls silent, it's rarely due to a cease-fire.
The unit of measurement used to chart a cerodon's growth is "persons consumed."
It reacted to Naya's overabundant food supply by growing additional mouths.
"From the damned I make my garden." —Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth
During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace.
The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh.
A king in Jund, a serf in Esper.
Their newfound wings shined elegantly and functioned partially.
Giving a thing wings does not take away its fear of flight—or its fear of fire, for that matter.
They feared each other for their differences but were absolutely terrified at their similarities.
"Let us flee to the deep jungle. Our city is no longer safe—and I suspect neither is the fallback retreat."
"Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder." —Knight-Captain Wyhorn
"I appreciate the artistry of the telemins, but the creatures of the other worlds provide a much more dramatic performance." —Ennor, mentalist
Sigils corrupted by outsiders do not lose their power, only their purity.
"To join our ranks, one must be pure. To be pure, one must be blessed by etherium. To be blessed, one must forget oneself." —Ethersworn prayer
"Do not mistake a behemoth's assistance for subservience." —Mayael the Anima
As the elves learned the hymns of angels, the knights learned the roars of titans.
"One sigil awarded for valor, the other awarded for surviving Hellkite's Pass."
"In darkness is kindled the fiercest hope." —Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another.
As pure mana flooded across the shards, it brought a sense of unity even to Jund's vicious food chain.
Well suited are the nacatl to a coat of steel and forge-tempered claws.
"He is part of a new breed of guardian, one who embraces the best of both his world and ours." —Mayael the Anima
"I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right."
"There is no glory in a death of age, as even the leotau know. As winter steals into their coats, they seek the deadliest lands, that they may die as they lived." —Aarsil the Blessed
A match for any army—even its own.
Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion.
Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon.
"Here is the proof that what has been done may yet be undone. The hope we thought dead will be gloriously reborn."
"Some think its immunity to countermagic evolved because of the constant mage attacks on Naya. I think it just ate a bunch of wizards." —Broka, drumhunter
"In this new world, I have seen the once-devout rhoxes take up arms with the savages of Jund. I would be offended, but I see the wisdom in their choice." —Gernan, Dawnray archer
Those who forget their past are doomed to be eaten by it.
"When the wielder is strong enough, any sword will do." —Kresh the Bloodbraided
In war-torn Alara, sometimes a wurm's gullet is the safest place to be.
"The behemoths are content to graze like cattle, while dragons rage and conquer. I know which example I'll follow."
"May the earth rise up to meet you."
"Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance." —Sarkhan Vol
Alarans commemorated its appearances with new holidays bearing names like the Great Cataclysm and the Fall of Ilson Gate.
"I've seen death before. My mother succumbing to illness, my comrades bleeding on the battlefield . . . But I'd never seen anything as dreadful as that." —Taani, berserker of Etlan
Even the balmgivers of Bant couldn't heal the incurables, but sharing their torment helped.
The last thought to go through their victim's mind is the one they tear out through the scalp.
What happens when a plane of predators collides with four planes of prey?
Using a spine to break a slave's back appeals to the Grixis sense of irony.
"Stray not into sin, lest you face the doorman of an insatiable tomb." —Prayer of Asha
The blood of the demons quickened as their master rose over the battlefield. The blood of the angels also quickened: here was the chance to finally end the war started millennia ago.
For four nights following Ennor's death and the reclaiming of his etherium, its recipients were found slain, the etherium ripped from their bodies.
"I pray that I am never considered useless or old." —Sharuum the Hegemon
The Maelstrom sent a wave of raw mana through the battlefield, carrying off the fighting and fallen alike.
"Birth and death are both reversible." —Nicol Bolas
Words describing it fail. Pages relating it shrivel. Tales recounting it end.
"The soul is only as eternal as I say it is." —Sharuum the Hegemon
In the Maelstrom, a trick of the light can feast on human flesh.
It was given life by the etherium of a hundred slain Esperites.
An Esper mage will leave a hole in your memory with surgical precision. A Grixis mage sees no reason to be so kind.
This secret society of mages manipulates the beliefs and opinions of others.
It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think.
Creations made in madness may contain great power. The path to that power is as labyrinthine as the creator's mind.
"The volcanic winds make a maze of the skies of Jund. If we mean to invade, we must first learn their invisible paths."
"His body belongs to Bant now. His soul? I honestly don't know. I expect it belongs to the angels." —Rafiq of the Many
"This violent wasteland is an indictment of its people. These cowards lack the will to oppose disorder."
"I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe."
"See, children of metal? Already your bodies are rejecting harm. Continue on our path, and perfection will be yours."
"We coat ourselves in steel every day. What is etherium but the next logical step?"
"If the skies are our only refuge, I will see all of us take wing."
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine." —Mayvar, minion of Geth
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?" —Geth, keeper of the Vault
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death." —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
Liliana learned the secrets she sought, but at a price that was etched on her fate.
"Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last." —Phage the Untouchable
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
Its laughter drives needles through your mind.
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.
Don't drink and thrive.
They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line.
"If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out." —Hob Heddil
Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls.
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"My summoning begins your debt, planeswalker."
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand." —Akroma, angelic avenger
The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.
"Even in single combat, I am never alone." —Rafiq of the Many
"The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns." —Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra
Even those born to battle could only lay their blades at Akroma's feet.
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends." —Journal found in Numai
Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.
"You have not died until I consent."
"The spread of evil's destruction shall always be matched by the rise of the noble fallen."
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills.
"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait." —Crovax
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory.
"Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving."
The goblins went to sleep in Jund and awoke in Grixis. They'd never seen a zombie before. They would never see one again.
When the aven scouts located the tower in Esper, the Knights of the Reliquary set off on a righteous crusade to recover their lost treasures.
"It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them." —Pulan, Bant orchardist
Built in honor of Alara's creatures, the ziggurat vanished long ago. When Progenitus awakened, the temple emerged again.
As the shards merged, relics once thought mundane regained forgotten powers.
Those who dismiss the cylix as an ordinary wooden bowl are blind to the true measure of its worth.
Once broken, who knows what worlds might grow from its shards?
Those who drink from Malfegor's cup are tainted with hunger and stained with lies.
In a world where death is always violent, cruel weapons are as common as rocks.
The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now.
The ripe smell of life drifted into Grixis. The dead caught the scent and with reckless hunger followed it back into Jund.
The Seekers of Carmot searched across the unknown lands for the mystical red stone that could reforge Esper in ethereal perfection.
With their life energy suppressed under their etherium enhancements, thieves from Esper found it surprisingly easy to explore the ruins of Grixis.
After years of honing her philosophy in debate with stubborn rhoxes, Niella was ready to convert any heathen.
Plowbeasts of Naya escaped their harnesses in droves, content to snack on the conveniently cultivated fields of Eos and Valeron.
"They think they're winning. But they're just lining up to be dinner." —Rakka Mar
Underneath the cities of Esper are cycles of life unseen by those who feed them.
They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it.
"There is only one way of life in Jund: feed on the weak until you are cut down by something stronger." —Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth
An enlightened soul caged in a body made for battle.
The Soul of the World has returned.
Survival in the wilds of Naya left Tiyan well equipped to win the civilized battles of Bant.
When the shards merged, Mayael found herself the general of Naya's mightiest army.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die."
There is no world where angels fear to tread.
The elves of Naya were the last to acknowledge the massive shift of mana in their world.
"Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend." —Elspeth
"You have two choices: heed my advice now or need my healing later."
A killing machine from birth.
"Everyone has a price."
Egbol stared in wonder at Naya's landscape. So much to eat. So much to steal.
"To trespass so far from home is to ask for a lonesome grave."
As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities.
Reuniting a world is not a gentle process.
"The smiths of this land must be mad to reach so far and so high for another creature to decorate." —Cagen Vargan, Jhessian sea scout
Taste his power, hunger for his command.
Each of the twenty-three winds of Esper is named and chronicled, and every possible interaction with the flow of magic is exhaustively detailed.
After years of world-bending machinations, Bolas's triumph is at hand.
The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards.
Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky.
"Leotau that were born wild make the best mounts. It's like riding a thunderstorm." —Rafiq of the Many
Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree.
Some who scouted new lands chose to stay.
Seeds from Jund don't drift gently on the wind. They get up and stampede.
An avatar he sculpts of wisdom and strength.
Alara is broken no more.
To train her elves for war, Mayael would drop a sackful of acorns from the tree canopy. Each archer tried to split as many as possible before the acorns hit the forest floor below.
"Our arrows are aimed not at the sacred behemoths but at those who dare to dream of such a trophy."
"Gods do not sleep soundly in the earth's embrace." —Mayael the Anima
She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden.
"Blades dull and armor dents. Marisi taught us that instinct is the only thing a true warrior needs." —Ajani
The combined strength of all five planes spawned creations none had seen before.
When outsiders interrupted the matca championship, things got ugly.
On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach.
The sphinx tyrannized Bant until a rhox mage tested the hardiness of her shiny parts.
"Each night, the sun unravels and blows away. Each day, the spiders set a new one in the sky." —Sunseeder myth
"The sun shines bright upon the strong."
It's revered for its power, celebrated for its grace, and feared for the avalanches triggered by its thunderous feet.
When its smoky plumes light Naya's sky, every creature from the smallest pip fawn to the largest rannet heeds the warning.
Tired of waiting for a dragon to eat them, some hardy goblins struck out to become meals for the unknown.
"How can we outrun the sky?" —Hadran, sunseeder of Naya
"I'll fight two at once, and then lick their guts from my blades."
There are no "weak" creatures on Jund. Even the smallest can strike a deadly blow.
"The finest pawns are those with pawns of their own." —Nicol Bolas
You'd better know how to pray for rain.
The metal filigree in his body glowed red-hot, and his flesh soon followed.
The spikes of sangrite made the goblin stronger, but they didn't make him any smarter.
"A surly beast, the kranioceros will raise its defenses at the smallest threat. Stay out of sight and downwind, or you'll disrupt its natural migrations." —Ebrel, godtoucher mentor
"Bant is a world imprisoned by polished stone and tyrannical rule. It yearns to strike back against those who restrain it."
Finding themselves in a new and unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire.
Jund feasts on the unprepared.
The farther he roamed from Jund and its dragons, the more he felt their essence in himself.
When you've got the temperament of a dragon, every argument is one you'll win.
On Jund, the deep canyons were the best places to hide. When the goblins wandered into Naya, they found that was not so true.
A drop of blood spilled from the first dragon.
For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor.
The demon's yoke is part leash, part noose.
"The meek inherit nothing." —Sedris, the Traitor King
As Grixis collided with the rest of Alara, the worlds began to hear the hateful whispers of the forgotten dead.
The problem with a liquid that can dissolve anything is finding something to carry it in.
One goes to Tidehollow either to forget or to be forgotten. Either way, the scullers will oblige.
Esper artificers never imagined that one day their scraps would be pressed against their soft and fragile throats.
Born of volcanic forces, it thrives on the absolute panic it inspires.
When the smell of passing thoughts piques its hunger, its maw becomes primed with acid and a taste for brains.
Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age.
Necromancers who discovered the new sources of mana were quick to dream up new nightmares with them.
Dreadwings spring from lofty perches to surprise kathari in midflight. They smother their prey and then consume it as they glide gently toward the ground.
The barbarians of Jund believe the bottomless tar pits extend forever into other, darker worlds.
The bones of Jund's dead resurfaced in Naya, poisoning the jungle and killing the sunseeders' crops.
Every horizon hides a new possibility.
"This air feels so heavy and thick. There are no winds to speak of. I fear the knowledge that comes from a place like this."
"Send it back to its own strange world so we can avoid another inglorious combat with these wicked beings." —Captain Valek of Jhess
"With no flesh, there is no pain, no hesitation, no emotion of any kind. He is crafted perfection." —Tezzeret
"The road to truth has many branches, and so must the cane with which I walk it." —Voln the Elder
After finding no sustenance on the edges of Grixis, it turned to the skies of Bant.
"Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be."
"Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains." —Esper fable
"It's simple, really. If they can't find us, they can't kill us."
The battle was won in the commander's head before the first weapon was drawn.
Esper mages devised their weapons to be so devastating that war seemed unnecessary.
The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market.
"The stone is more potent than ever. The flesh that creeps into our land will become even more slovenly and weak." —Niclavs, archmage of Esper
Togk Manytooth struggled helplessly as the kathari circled above him. For a warrior, immobilization is a fate worse than death.
Priests of Bant protect their temples with traps more elaborate than any mosaic floor.
The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes.
As the outsiders invaded Bant, soldiers who once saw sigils as the highest marks of glory began to see the scars of battle as tokens of equal worth.
When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence.
"Whether or not you will bow to me is not open to debate. The question is, will I ever let you rise?" —Fridius, telemin master
The weight of her conviction balances on the harmony of her soul.
"Let my lance sing with the voices of angels and the heathen cower before my shield, for I will teach this land the meaning of honor."
"We must hunt and kill the dragon before it can return to raze our ancient city."
"If I had many lives, I would give them all for Bant."
Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat.
A paragon of honor, Galo Aher fell to a blast of fire. The Order of the White Orchid was so saddened that they forged a new sigil in his likeness.
Without a connection of mind and body, magic is just an idea stuck in the head, a word on the tip of a tongue.
It shines in the darkness of its master's ambitions.
Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues.
"This new chaos confounds us. We must fling it into our winds, our storms. These we can control." —Bezzit Plar, Esper stormcaller
"The bird wore the form of a man, bereft of filigree. Why do the Texts not speak of it?" —Belator of Esper
When the meek charge into battle, courage becomes infectious.
As his new wings lifted him high above Bant, Taric felt his earthly aspirations transform into heavenly resolve.
They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives.
A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled.
"Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one."
"Death is no excuse for disobedience." —Liliana Vess
"Why fight the body when you can dominate the mind that rules it?" —Jace Beleren
Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims.
"Looks like we're completely outnumbered." "Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored."
www.MagicTheGathering.com
Slain orochi warriors were buried with a tree sapling so they would become part of the forest after death.
Even the threat of power has power. —Jeska, warrior adept
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left.
Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.
'Tis better to give than to receive.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
"Who said there are no assurances in life? I assure you this is going to hurt."
After the fourth time Chandra left a place engulfed in flames, she decided to just go ahead and make it her thing.
Reach out and torch someone.
The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper.
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.
His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch.
When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation." —Karn, silver golem
When he hits people, they stay hit.
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
"Try to pretend like you understand what's important."
"You aren't invited."
The pyromancer summoned up her mightiest onslaught of fire and rage. Jace feigned interest.
"What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?" —Jhoira, master artificer
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
"Fly us higher, out of its storm." —Sisay, captain of the Weatherlight
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
"Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal." —Zur the Enchanter
For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks.
Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control.
Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet.
On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods.
The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees.
There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death.
Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands.
"They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living." —Olcot, Rider of Joffik
Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies.
"We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes." —Tullus of Palandius
Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics.
Centuries have passed since the plane shattered, yet the obelisks of each shard faithfully serve their long-forgotten purpose.
Volcanic ash-winds batter it, climbing vines overwhelm it, dragonfire roasts it, and yet it still stands as a testament to a forgotten world.
Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation.
It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself.
Whether incorporated into the structure of castles or admired as lone symbols, the obelisks stand for Bant's values of loyalty, honor, and truth.
To crack a mirror is to provide an opening for the reflection to escape.
It shows not what you are but what you were.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
She knows the names and secrets of each of Esper's twenty-three winds.
The greatest gift you can give a sea aven is solitude.
"Words are a waste of time. Destruction is a language everyone understands." —Sarkhan Vol
"Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance." —Tezzeret
"Retribution is best delivered by claws and rage, with both magnified." —Ajani
The scullers beneath Esper keep strixes as trained pets, and set them loose when a fare refuses to pay.
Agents of the Architects of Will mark their victims as a reminder that their secrets are secret no longer.
"We can't beat the necromancers in numbers or raw power. We must beat them with ingenuity and timing." —Rannon, Vithian holdout
Even the most battle-hardened soldiers pause in her presence for a moment of introspection.
Knight-stewards guard the Sun-Dappled Court, a grove of immense, sculptured olive trees that represent Valeron's twelve noble families.
The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
"What rises without legs, whispers without a voice, bites without teeth, and dies without having life?"
"For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty."
To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard.
He bids his minions rise from their graves to their knees.
Some believe the spiky crystal called sangrite is concentrated dragon's breath. Others think it's crystallized life energy. The clans care only about the power it unleashes when crushed.
If you breathe, she will fight you. If you breathe fire, she must fight you.
Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma.
The behemoth roared, and the world was blasted free of empires and tyrants.
Naya teems with gargantuans, titanic monsters to whom both nature and civilization defer.
Many sigils, one purpose.
The surprise of a battle cry can be as deadly as a blade.
"Amateurish. Nearsighted. A waste of my time and everyone else's." —Indra, nullmage of Vectis
"There are none alive that I cannot crush. There are none dead that I do not command."
"Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone." —Rakka Mar
Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization.
The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths.
Each of his twenty-two braids is bound with bone and leather from a foe.
Once a year, Akrasa holds a joust that draws knights and their leotaus from every nation on Bant. The prize is an Akrasan sigil, but the true reward is the angel's kiss.
Bloated with venom, it crawls Grixis looking for victims to ooze onto.
Jund pulses with raw energy, waiting for shamans to shape it into useful form.
The Jhessian navy makes successful raids on Valeron's coastal towns thanks to their spies planted during peacetime.
Centuries of careful practice have elevated the casting of protective spells to an art form. What little offensive magic remains on Bant stands little chance of breaching them.
"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need." —Sarkhan Vol
"So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?" —Eliza of the Keep
"Lay sacrifice to the godsire that it may spare us, but save some for his progeny who also will hunger." —Syeena, elvish godtoucher
Every once in a while, when they aren't getting incinerated in lava, crushed under rock slides, or devoured by dragons, goblins experience moments of unmitigated glory in battle.
"Thoughts are commodities. Someone will pay a good price for them. Even ones as simplistic as yours . . ." —Ennor, mentalist
Her wings are the prayers of the devoted; her sword, the despair of the vile.
Some Serul Cove rogues traffic in stolen sigils, which fetch a high price from those who would rather pay for honor than earn it.
There is always a greater power.
Be worthy of a single blessing, and many more will follow.
Viashino hunt in gangs called thrashes. Not all thrashes hunt the freshest game.
It holds motionless vigil, watching Naya in silence through the screen of the whitecover. When it senses anything amiss, it launches forward with the uncanny sound of torn fog.
Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate.
Revealing the truth only deepened Tezzeret's curiosity for the secrets still buried.
"Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free." —Rakka Mar
"To immortality."
While the smell of burning flesh is common in Grixis, the odor of smoldering brain matter is a rare treat.
Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway.
Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass.
"The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood."
Monks from Topa wander all of Bant, encouraging the Unbeholden to find their place in society through honorable combat.
Few Nayans dare hunt the gargantuans. They're regarded not as animals but as forces of nature, like landslides or typhoons.
An avatar he sculpts of instinct and force.
Her connection to the gargantuans puts her in line to become Anima, a sacred but daunting duty.
"Momentum is a great ally."
Jund has little necromancy. Instead, the flesh of its dead gives rise to algal fiends.
"I have trained in all three schools of magic."
The idols of old are rich in minerals and magic. They are torn apart when nature aims to eat well.
Whether gargantuans are the manifested will of Progenitus or simply the result of overabundant resources is moot when a herd of them is thundering at you.
Urak froze when he heard it. That was his first mistake. He turned and cast a dramatic ward spell. That was his last.
Why settle for mere enormity?
Naya's bounty spills over upon itself. Each leaf and flower struggles against the next with thrashing thorns, acidic pollen, and strangling roots.
He watches over the valley where Progenitus sleeps, culling signs from its steaming breaths.
Weavers' webs wall off swaths of territory more effectively than any portcullis made of iron.
"Gargantuans die not in moments but in moons. There is still time to aid this noble ancient."
It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits.
Before any major undertaking, a Cylian elf seeks the guidance of a visionary to learn the will of the gargantuan ancients.
"I feel the vine-rhythm as my friends drive the beast to me. I will not miss my mark."
Although the Anima herself remains at the Sacellum, her druids roam Naya, collecting mana bonds with every location in the world.
From her sunsail tent high above the forest floor, an elf harkener can hear the footfalls of a single creature through the cacophony of Naya's jungle sounds.
The Sun-Dappled Court of Valeron stands secure behind a wall of steel-tipped arrows.
Natives of Naya know better than to loiter near the mouth of a cave. Two glowing red eyes and the stench of foul breath are all the warning you're likely to get.
"Mine is an insatiable god, with appetites as magnificent as the jungle itself."
It lurks just under the surface, using the algae-choked tar pits of Jund as both home and hunting blind.
"Never subtle nor cryptic is the reckoning of the mighty." —Mayael the Anima
A dragon's death is almost as feared as its life. Old, dying dragons throw themselves into volcanoes, causing massive upheaval and widespread disaster.
"Thrashes of the ancient past still linger in spirit and shadow, desperate to sink their claws into our souls." —Rakka Mar
Underneath the Dregscape lay the remains of creatures long extinct from Grixis.
Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges.
An avatar he sculpts of anger and flame.
Fire burns away both flesh and freedom.
On Jund, even the landscape is a deadly hunter. Volcanoes, tar pits, and rock slides seem to prey upon the living.
"Only those with the strength to seize their destiny deserve to have one." —Nacatl scratchforms
Dragons make for spiteful gods.
"Jund is a wounded world. Beware its searing blood spilling out onto the surface." —Rakka Mar
"This is going to hurt a lot, but on the bright side, you'll be dead soon." —Sedris, the Traitor King
"Of your blood I will make my mead, an offering to the thirsty jungle."
Each mutation causes the incurables to look vastly different from one another. They are left with only one thing in common: their insatiable lust for the slaughter.
Viashino thrashes keep iguanars as hunting companions, giving them wounded captives as playthings.
Goblin lairs sit high in Jund's mountains. This gives the goblins easy access to the sacrificial peaks above and lets them build up a head of steam before attacking prey down below.
A goblin raid is a delicate gambit—a blend of stealth, precision, and screaming death.
Dragon lords of Jund rule by edicts of flame.
The artistry of Etlan's firedancers is more spectacular when behemoths join in.
The penultimate step of the ritual involves bathing in a delicious glaze.
Goblins journey to the sacrificial peaks in pairs so that the rare survivor might be able to relate the details of the other's grisly demise.
"The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it." —Sarkhan Vol
Naya's celebrants stoke the gargantuans into a rage, loosing a tide of muscle with the precision of an arrow.
Elementals born of Jund are as cruel and unstable as the plane itself.
Undeath doesn't end the kathari's search for carrion; it only removes one corpse from the Dregscape.
Kathari, the sickly aven of Grixis, have learned that the corpses by the shoreline are more trap than treat.
"The future is a snake, devouring your life backwards through time. And when you die, believe me, it doesn't stop feeding." —Sedris, the Traitor King
Dragons consider drakes to be mockeries of their perfection, destroying them on sight.
He scowls at his imperfect creation, then crushes it to scrap. He salvages the etherium and begins anew.
The goblet was a gift from the sphinx Gorael, who hoped humans and vedalken would eventually destroy each other to acquire it, leaving all of Esper to her own kind.
"This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather." —Rannon, Vithian holdout
Vitals of Grixis who eschew undeath must scrape and scratch to retain their mortality. The result is a breed of inventive mages.
Before the zealots of the Ethersworn came to power, Esper illusionists dreamed up creations to mimic a variety of substances.
Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons.
There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within.
The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living.
"On our thirty-fourth day of digging, we unearthed a chamber that contained the intact remains of several species long extinct from Grixis. One in particular should make a fine siege engine . . . ." —Last notes of Shungus Nod, fleshcrafter
"May these deaths be the first of many."
"The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal."
For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same.
"Give me your memories, and you will have release from the suffering they bring you."
Witches of the Split-Eye Coven speak of a future when Grixis will overflow with life energy. For now, they must harvest vis from the living to fuel their dark magics.
Warriors of the Rip Clan wear their beetle-acid scars proudly, even modifying clothing and armor to better display the trophy.
The consuming undeath of Grixis terrifies the survivors of Vithia, but its fauna is just as fearsome.
The necropolis at Unx was once a living city, its streets untrodden by death.
When the task spilled over into undeath, he stopped calling it his life's work.
Even on Esper, there are those who eschew the use of magic in favor of simpler methods.
At sea, the Jhessian fleet strikes swiftly and decisively. On land, facing the elite cavalry of Valeron, its marines must rely on more cautious strategies.
"From the highest towers to the deepest sea, all life must be touched by etherium." —Lodus of the Ethersworn
He calls a riddle through the gaps of cloven clouds, hoping for an answer.
"Magic cast through a hand of flesh is just as weak as the flesh itself." —Lodus of the Ethersworn
Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself.
"There is no such thing as scrap metal. All such material can be repaired with the proper bonding agent." —Quennus, metallurgeon
The island nation of Jhess is under constant siege from Valeron on the mainland. Riders traverse the coastline, always on the lookout for sails or aven.
Rogue mechanists once rummaged through the wastes of the Tidehollow, constructing unauthorized golems to threaten the hegemony of the sphinxes. The orbs put a stop to that.
"The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail." —Lodus of the Ethersworn
"Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is."
She stands ready, always watchful, knowing that weeks of peace and serenity can be overturned by a single distant sail.
"It's free to do whatever it wants. I've merely told it what that is." —Xorin, Architect of Will
"We of the Sanctum Arcanum have pondered every word on every page of the Filigree Texts. If you can't say the same, don't bother speaking."
The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone.
"Speculation is foolish when the tools of certainty are available." —Cinna, vedalken consul
She can heal the flesh, or exploit its many weaknesses.
Their shots are fired most often as signals—or at those who didn't get the message.
Before signing anything on Grixis, always read the fine print.
In ages past, Esper couriers bore messages written on ornate scrolls. The medium has grown more sophisticated, but the principle remains the same.
Etherium does not know sleep. Only magic can teach it the resting state of cold steel.
A permanent storm rages over the plain of Cloudheath, and drakes ride its currents—two reminders that some elements of Esper will not be controlled.
"Forget. Only then will there be space for hope between the pain and fear."
"What you are attempting is not against the law. It is, however, extremely foolish."
On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment.
"It is sacrilege to confine a gargantuan to the grinding of straight lines. I will pray that it remembers who is the master of this land." —Syeena, elvish godtoucher
"Those talons really dig into your skin, but it's better than being dropped." —Rafiq of the Many
Sunseeders quest for areas of open sky. They train plowbeasts to beat back the dense jungle long enough to cultivate a crop.
An avatar he sculpts of fellowship and light.
Each sigil marks the recognition of a great deed and signifies a duty owed to the one who granted it.
"Soon I will sleep, eyes closing to a world tarnished with flesh, and then wake to a polished vision." —Sharuum
As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage.
"Aven bandits can be sly. You've got to fill the sky with boulders—and then seek cover immediately." —Knight-Captain Wyhorn
At his side, humble beasts become weapons more deadly than sharpened steel.
A circle of light and a word of confinement.
"By the time I got there, the heart had stopped. Fortunately, I was able to replace it with something better."
The cup was a gift from the sphinx Tameron, who hoped that those who drank from it would live long enough to decrypt the sphinxes' wisdom.
The strength of Bant's caste system is the unfailing loyalty of its meekest members.
Both guide and guard on open plain.
The Order of the Skyward Eye does the bidding of an evil force, unwittingly stirring fear and mistrust across Bant in accordance with his plans.
Bantians believe those who are born into the highest caste and live a life of discipline and virtue can ascend to become angels.
"The elves claim the canopy. The nacatl claim the mountains. I suppose you think we ought to stay on the jungle floor?"
"Only by the bravery of those who put loyalty above glory is our home kept safe." —Elspeth
Rebels and other malcontents forced into the ritual awake lost in Topa's vast savannahs. Those who find their way back return humble and repentant.
"The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is . . . suppressed."
"I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself." —Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean
Naya's trees grow tall and sturdy. Their foliage intertwines to form dewcups, rainwater pools where the elves gather to celebrate life.
"A night attack will be easy. We'll make an air raid over the Akrasan border. Just get me some flint to light the war torches."
Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer.
"Even in single combat, I am never alone." —Rafiq of the Many
Rigorous faith and belief are rewarded on occasion, and richly so.
Bant's armies are primarily composed of members of the Mortar caste, loyal commoners who haven't yet earned a sigil.
One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices.
The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten.
"Direct confrontation never was to the orcs' taste." —General Varchild
They look human—until they bleed.
"This ceaseless device has helped uncover marvels unreachable by mere flesh." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
"The roterothoper is as insidious as it is ingenious. It is one of the few creations of our school that I take no pride in." —Baki, wizard attendant
The very ground yielded to Mishra's wishes.
Scholars are uncertain whether it was the actual sound or some other magical property of the elven lyre that transformed its player.
"We were not meant to have such terrible things. They should be left where we found them, if not destroyed!" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
Few remember that Ashnod's defilement of Terisiare's resources outstripped even that of her peers.
"Although fragile, the aeolipile could be quite destructive." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"We encountered the sentinels in the wastes, near no living thing. Their purpose was inscrutable." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit." —Arnjlot Olasson, sky mage
"Come to us, with your lightning. Come to us, with your thunder. Serve us with your strength, and smite our foes with your power." —Steinar Icefist, Balduvian shaman
"The sea gives up her dead as easily as the soil." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Be open to the blessings, whatever their form." —Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Too many of us have died in the explosions that wrack these hills." —Klazina Jansdotter, leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
"It is the changing of perception that is important." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alien place." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a spider without an appetite." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!" —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Finally we understand the lesson of our home: loss begets renewal." —Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"The magic at the heart of all living things can bear awe-inspiring fruit." —Kolevi of Havenwood, elder druid
"We could see the horizon blacken with the great beasts, but it was too late. The icefield offered no immediate safety, but luckily most of us reached a crevasse in which we could take cover." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Do not fear adversity. Let your courage be your strength." —Onatah, Anaba shaman
"That which does not bend to the will of Freyalise shall surely break." —Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
The elves gathered huge piles of rot to grow fungus. Out of imitation or forethought, the thallids did the same.
"I never question the Autumn Willow about her motives, not even when she turns people into lizards. It's her way." —Devin, faerie noble
Kaysa speaks as the elder druid, but Yavimaya recognizes only one voice: its own.
"To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"Here in Fyndhorn, the goddess Freyalise is generous to her children." —Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"I breathed deeply, and suddenly I knew not who or where I was." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"Thallids could absorb energy from the forest itself. Even elves were at a disadvantage in fighting them." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
In ashes are the gems of history.
"Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"Born and bred of fungus, thallids were nearly impossible to kill." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn." —Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"We are never without guidance, if we but seek it." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"How can any human hope to match our skills? We are children of Fyndhorn, and its sap runs in our veins." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"As the climate cooled, many elves turned to thallid farming for food, while the hunters honed their skills on what little game remained." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
One aurochs may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.
"Every patch of land must belong to Kjeldor, no matter what the cost!" —General Varchild
"Trust in the power of stone. Stone is strong; stone shatters swords; stone breaks bones. Trust in stone." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"Anybody want some . . . toast?" —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"If you'd been there, you would've run from that deer, too!" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Unsuccessful in their early battle for Montford, the orcs quickly tempered their bloodlust with cowardice.
"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?" —Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain
"Yes, the farmers keep our soldiers fed. But why do they have to make every battlefield a pigpen?" —Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain
There's a chance to win every battle.
"It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good." —Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain
"Your army must fear you more than the enemy. Only then will you triumph." —Malga Phlegmtooth
"Eenie, meenie, minie, moe . . . oh, why not all of them?" —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Overkill? This isn't a game of Kick-the-Ouphe!" —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"They aren't the brightest or the quickest of giants. For that matter, the same holds true if you compare them to rocks." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Each generation teaches the next that artifice is the enemy of natural order." —Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"AIIIEEEE!" —Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
"We were chasing Lim-Dûl when the ridge in front of us suddenly crumbled. I can't believe it was mere coincidence." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"There is no shame in solitude. The lone knight may succeed where a hundred founder." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"Why do we trade with those despicable elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!" —Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"GOTCHA!" —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"A whole skin is worth a thousand victories." —Orcish veteran of the Battle of Montford
"The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them." —Baron Sengir
"The shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Fair fight? I'll take survival over chivalry any day!" —Tor Wauki, Bandit King
"Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost." —Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Not wind, but the breath of the dead.
"Rumors persist of dark deeds performed in the depths of Soldev. When will Dagsson heed the danger therein?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counterinsurgency.
"When you cannot rely on your sources, trust your own senses. When you cannot trust those, you must follow your instincts." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"The guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle.
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!" —Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"They shall kill those whom once they loved." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"I thought the day had brought enough horrors for our ragged band, but the night was far worse." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
"If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours."
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal." —Baris, Serra inquisitor
"When the earth shakes, and their animals are swallowed up by the ground, perhaps they will think twice before attacking again." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Rarely have power and madness been so delightfully wed as they have in our dear grandmother." —Baron Sengir
"This party is such fun—but it's a shame to mourn just one." —Irini Sengir
"Serve me, and live forever." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer." —Autumn Willow
"Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
"The shamans of Marit Lage do her bidding in secret, but they do it gladly." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"The worst thing about being a mercenary for the Ebon Hand is having to wear a dead thrull." —Ivra Jursdotter
"A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever." —Zur the Enchanter
"To visit the sky requires bravery, and thought, and little else. To master the sky requires the binding of its masters, and little else." —Arnjlot Olasson, sky mage
"Ya can eat it or ya can weave it, but ya can't fight in it." —Zeki, reef pirate
Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . .
A fallen viscerid's only tribute is to be worn by a comrade.
"The lemures had barely taken wing when the sky roared with thunder. The swarm of little beasts wavered, divided, and fell, crashing to the earth." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
"Relax. I'm sure it's just a snake hissing." —Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Capturing this specimen was not easy. Study it well, that you someday might be as versatile." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
By the battle of Red Cliffs in the year 208, the Wu kingdom controlled more than seven thousand warships on the Yangtze.
"Who needs a spear? Ya break off the horn, and ya stab the fish with it. Easy!" —Kakra, sea troll
"Magic overused can freeze the mind. Creativity is more important than power." —Zur the Enchanter
"All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"These sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves." —Zur the Enchanter
Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed.
"Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"The duel was going badly for me, and Zur thought I was finished. He boasted that he would eat my soul—but all he ate were his words." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"Once great literature—now great litter." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"What I want, I take." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"The very lands of Balduvia are alive." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir." —Daria
"The folk of the Karplusan mountains are impossible to ambush." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"The so-called barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Faith is our greatest protector." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest
"You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a skyknight." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Fortune does not side with the fainthearted." —Sophocles, Phaedra
"The meek shall fight as one, and they shall overcome even the greatest of foes." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest
"Let them send their legions! I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords." —General Varchild
"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war." —Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching, trans. Feng and English
"Shall we turn away a worthy soul because his parents were peasants? I think not." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
A blazing light to drive out the shadows.
"Let us remember brave Jarkeld and his troops, who perished in the Adarkar Wastes so long ago." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"If we do our duty and uphold our honor, Kjeldor shall stand for a thousand years." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
The winged helms of the guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war.
"In these troubled times, we alone carry the hope of reconciliation between Elf and Human." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order advocate
"More than lessons may be gained from the past." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest
"Because the orc hordes attacked along the entire border, Scouts were essential to Icatia's defense." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses.
Farrel and his followers became a formidable band of vigilantes, battling Icatians and followers of Tourach.
"May they speed to their task, for the skyknights alone cannot hold Kjeldor safe." —Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
"Without combat medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
"A renegade rallying the rabble does not a true crusader make." —Irini Sengir
"I would say that our bureaucrats are no better than vipers—but I shouldn't insult the vipers." —Murat, death speaker
"Keep your chainmail, warrior. I have my own form of protection." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty." —Gulsen, abbey matron
Sometimes primitive cultures attributed natural phenomena to monsters. Sometimes they were right.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
As brilliant as a cut diamond, and with just as cruel an edge.
Dominaria's most ancient evil.
The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn.
"The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need." —Sarkhan Vol
"The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth." —Troilus and Cressida, William Shakespeare
Dragons come not in packs or in herds but in storms.
Dragon whelps face few threats besides their own enthusiasm.
Cleansing the world, one breath at a time.
2008 Vintage Championship Winner
As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue.
Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits.
At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents.
"Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity." —Talara, elvish safewright
Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby.
Mages dare not attempt magic in its grotesque presence.
Skulkins confer strange benefits on unsuspecting patrons.
Her poppets bring joy to the truly depraved.
The banner was not a symbol of victory, but a herald of the carnage to come.
"Ah, skull of shrew—a very potent substance. In powdered form, it gives thrice the zing of noggle hoof pulp." —Boghald, Barrenton medic
It hunts with the memory of a long lost herd.
"Everything falls apart. But living things fall apart in the most fascinating ways." —Mowagh the Gwyllion
Every skull has a tale to tell, and a skulkin is many dire tales cobbled together.
Selkies call to a sea they never swam, in a tongue they never spoke, with a song they never learned.
Travelers in these waters leave a bit of themselves behind.
Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor.
Losing his possessions distressed him, but the lack of limbs was strangely liberating.
Bogles are very tasty if you can get the skin off. It's getting a blade on them that's the problem.
The Aurora replaced the changelings' innocence with malice and their curiosity with hunger.
"She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections." —The Seer's Parables
Endry was determined to teach his groundlings a few winged-faerie tricks.
Do the glowing trinkets show it the way home, or do they set a twisted path for someone else to follow?
Enlightenment is the mundane seen from the vantage point of the divine.
The forest grew fangs. The sky spread its wings.
She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides.
"I knew a creature carved from a dream of wild freedom. Any attempt to leash or exploit it failed, and at terrible cost." —Ashling
A river even the merrow dare not cross.
"A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy." —The Seer's Parables
The faeries snickered at first. A common hob in Oona's skies? But his lance ended their mockery, and now the sound of a cicada's wings brings a shudder to the faerie heart.
Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields.
"Make these shots count. The more foes we drop now, the fewer we'll have trying to kill us later."
Duergars are prodigious workers with long memories. Some still fulfill intricately detailed orders given decades, if not centuries, before.
Some duergars dismiss the world above as a fable. They react violently when their comfortable illusions are dispelled.
"When in doubt, kill 'em twice."
Mimics don't need perfect disguises. They need only the perfect victims: the naive, the young, or the poor of sight.
A mimic's disguise fools its victims just long enough to draw them within range of its venomous tentacles.
Her hunt is silent until a bone snaps or flesh tears. Her victims never know to scream.
Her plans may yet bear fruit.
While it's true that a quillspike does heal the sick, it's just because it finds them tastier that way.
Trows are the vile trolls that lurk in the bogs of Shadowmoor. They reappear each night to frighten the living and gnaw the dead.
Trows have learned that it's not wise to eat cinders without a bucket or two of water nearby.
It eats and eats until the juiciest morsel it can find is itself.
Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer.
"His skin cuts swords." —The Seer's Parables
Nothing warms the bark on a chilly day like a draught of elf.
Once the hideous disease takes hold, it spreads through both bark and mind.
The scales of battle rarely balance.
Like many who dwell in Shadowmoor now, he was robbed of his better half by the Aurora.
Mimics don't hide their natural form well, but their disguises work well enough on boggarts.
It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh.
Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another.
"It's always funny till someone gets hurt. Then it's hilarious."
Noggles believe that they were the first race ever to walk Shadowmoor. They don't "steal." They just take back what's rightfully theirs.
Even treefolk witches steer clear of the unpredictable woods near Glen Elendra. Spells refract off the glamer-polished trees and the eyes of lurking pucas.
Seyden's temperament didn't take well to the puca's magic. Nor did his face.
"Nothing is truly your own. It is his, whether you know it or not." —The Seer's Parables
"Be happy when you see a puca shaped like mischief. It's far better than one shaped like death." —Dindun of Kulrath Mine
It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor.
A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body.
They found themselves alive again, still bearing their mortal wounds.
Once your life and all your worldly possessions have been surrendered to her, a gwyllion can be surprisingly civilized.
A mimic need only touch a being to learn its shape, but touching usually leads to mauling and messily eating.
She speaks only in vile epithets, spitting out curses and obscenities that harm others just by the hearing.
The divinity's patronage confers both wicked grace and graceful wickedness.
"She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity." —The Seer's Parables
"Only a knife left for a fortnight in the hollow of a ghastbark tree can inflict a wound so grave." —Kithkin superstition
When a graveyard is full, the gwyllions rattle the tombs and unleash the spirits into the sky.
"Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats."
Righteous anger hones a humble soul.
He digs his roots into barren ground, searching for old seeds that never had the chance to sprout.
The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty.
After its encounter with the spriggan, the patrol was red with anger, green with envy, white with fear, and painfully black and blue.
Some beasts are born not of a mother, but of magic.
It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence.
When nature is backed into a corner, just like its children, it lashes out.
The boggarts gorged themselves until their bellies glowed.
Though Shadowmoor's monster-haunted wilds beckon, she never leaves her post.
Gackt came to regret keeping his pet toads on his head.
When giants rise from their long slumbers, they rarely remember how fragile the waking world can be.
"Last time, it tore up the Wilt-Leaf, turned Mistmeadow into a mudhole, and made the river jump its banks. On the bright side, we were eating venison for weeks." —Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer
Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands.
Frorn didn't want to be kept, but he didn't want to be thrown back either.
The Extinguisher's curse lasted long after her departure.
Gnarltrunk didn't remember having quite that many knotholes.
A boggart's mind is a tinderbox of volatile thoughts, hungry for a spark.
As he races the moon each night, he draws a glowing equator across the world.
It has no safe side.
"It's not much for eating, but I think we can find somethin' to do with it."
"Fire's out. Should be safe now." —Gnarltrunk
It kills two beasts with one thrown.
Duergars who grow too large to live in the tunnels are sent topside to defend the entrances from intruders.
"If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold."
The concept of thoughtweft fascinates the Nighthearth cult. Imagine, bringing agony to an entire people by torturing just one.
Don't venture into the darkness, lest it decide not to let you leave.
"Your thoughts betray you." —Illulia of Nighthearth
Leeches never tire of feeding.
They once sought to unite with the flame of transcendence. Now they seek only to extinguish the lights of others.
Their thoughtweft carried Darial's last thoughts back to his doun. They sorely wished it had not.
"If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out." —Hob Heddil
A cinder's axe bears no marks from parrying a foe's blade.
It plucks away memories like choice bits of carrion.
Banished to the Dark Meanders for hideous crimes, some merrows find a taste for the darkness . . . and the dead.
The bogeyman doesn't disappear when you close your eyes.
"I was there to watch my brothers' quenching. I drew the slightest warmth from their dying rage." —Illulia of Nighthearth
Some eat the living. Some eat the dead. It eats the past.
The Aurora had transformed her into a relentless force of destruction.
"I felt as if I were moving in brackish water, as if I were drowning, even though I knew I stood on dry land." —Dindun of Kulrath Mine
Anyone who thinks merrows have more brains than brawn has never been run over by one.
Change is a denizen of Shadowmoor as much as ouphes and noggles are.
Once you have been marked by the merrow, you are not long for their waters.
Oona grants her favored subjects a dream from her own guarded heart.
He fancies himself a master thief, claiming to "steal the ground" from his victims.
"For years, the landfolk have emptied their refuse into the waters. It's time to return the favor."
"You should see your face right now."
Inspiration strikes the uncluttered mind.
Awylla's salvaged dreams would finally be put to good use.
"Creation is a paradox. It hatches from its opposite." —Olka, Mistmeadow witch
What the current doesn't take, they do.
Suddenly he realized that everything was connected by invisible strings, strings that could be pulled—or cut.
Is her need to heal born out of compassion or penance?
"Better for a doun to lose its cenn than its springjacks."
Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house."
Kithkin somnomancers enjoy the peaceful dreams wafting from their victims.
Many a keen-eared bogle has run afoul of a clever and silently orchestrated kithkin ambush.
It's tethered not to keep it from fleeing but to keep it from eating everything in sight.
"Muscle does not make one strong. It only masks the soul's light. True strength lies in purity of purpose." —Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer
The more his flock fears, the more power he wields.
"I'd rather hear the screams of battle than the quiet that follows." —Talara, elvish safewright
Its wings disturb more than air.
The Aurora had lessened the kithkins' kindness, deepened their paranoia, and dulled their sense of pain.
The more the scarier.
No matter how large or small, fierce or fleeting, the kithkin have a trap for it.
In dark times, Truth bears a blade.
"She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections." —The Seer's Parables
The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."
The elves of Wilt-Leaf Wood continually expand the palisade surrounding the sanctuary. They hope to one day enclose the entire forest within its walls.
Without the care of the tideshapers, the Lanes lie neglected. Some have flooded entire towns; others dried to cracked mud.
Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be?
The gate of every kithkin doun is a cunning trap, intended to spill visitors into an oubliette from which there is no escape.
"Here did the Extinguisher steal the light from the world. Here will we sacrifice her to bring the Great Rekindling to our people." —Illulia of Nighthearth
Occupancy of the den changes from night to night as boggart gangs fight for control of a place they aren't willing to simply eat.
It's the twisted creation of a kithkin diviner who dreamed of very large crows.
The wings are held in place by wicker rods. The rods are held in place by pure faith.
It harnesses the power of night in a land where daylight fears to show itself.
A taut slipknot trigger is the only thing standing between you and standing.
"I rigged it together from wicker and scrap, yet somehow I find it unalterably perfect." —Braenna, cobblesmith
Built to shuttle goods from the river, it took off one day carrying a cauldron of dyes.
Once a tool of kithkin farmers, scarecrows of all shapes now skitter and lurch across Shadowmoor, animated by residual rustic magics.
A deflated sigh breathed into the horn emerges as an inspiring melody.
It's harvest time.
It wasn't really expected to fly. Then again, it wasn't expected to move, either.
It gathers hues from the twilight mist so that its master can paint a better world.
It's a fool's race to run if all is lost if it be won.
Most such relics remain clasped shut for fear of what ominous truths might be carved into the diptych inside.
"I know one night it won't come back. Then I'll know it's truly done its job." —Braenna, cobblesmith
Beware a scarecrow bearing gifts—especially sloshing vessels of acid.
"Bits of fallen scarecrow, laces of elfskin leather, teeth of an axeshark merrow . . . An industrious soul can find new uses for the most mundane items." —Mowagh the Gwyllion
One night Oona bottled the sky. The next night she aligned the stars and released it.
Scarecrows deemed too malevolent to roam free are shackled to boulders or dolmen stones. Their animosity usually outlives the chains.
Its scars cut deeper than its blade.
Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.
Every life ends, but life itself never does.
She whispered a prayer for strength, and her wishes wafted away like seeds on the wind.
Elves search for sources of beauty in a nighted world. Meanwhile, the nighted world searches for the blood of elves.
"I refuse to die—not at the hands of one such as you."
Whole again in honor and horn.
"An axe may break upon a ribbon if the ribbon's will is the stronger." —Awylla, elvish safewright
"I have a gift. The ability to sense encroaching darkness has saved many lives. And yet constantly feeling the force of so much ugliness is a terrible burden."
"Some say she hid the sun herself, a desperate act to save it from its ultimate extinction." —The Seer's Parables
When elves find a fount of beauty, they protect it. Where there is beauty, there is hope.
"Beware of trees that talk. Their words are threats. And mind the ones that sway and creak. They too threaten us, but in a foreign tongue." —*The Book of Other Folk*
"We will give you the peace you seek, though you may not yet know you seek it."
Elvish healers carry vials of the balm known as dawnglow, reserving it for those wounds that herbs cannot treat.
Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another.
Elvish dawnhands test a relic's worthiness before collecting it for the safehold. If it can't stand up to a stiff breeze, it's left behind.
"All manner of curses, blights, and luckspoils infect Shadowmoor. We stalk them, one perilous quest at a time."
Dawnglove bloom is a potent nostrum, but the dawnglow brewed from its sap is nothing less than life itself.
The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh."
Their home uprooted by a giant, the gang of boggarts mourned their old stomping ground.
The Tattermunge gang has no words for the spell that whips their instinctual rage into a frenzy. They only know they like it.
It shows up at one meal wearing the carcass of the last.
The Scuzzback gang scavenges rusty armor covered in barbed protrusions. No threat is more effective than the threat of infection.
Night after night, Rosheen babbled about a bygone sunlit world, her every word dismissed as a madwoman's ravings.
To reach the ravine of the Wanderbrine River, they were told to take the shortcut "through the mountains." They took the directions literally.
It scours the hills for living matter, savoring even the tang of poisonous fungi.
For a moment, objects of pure mana glimmered in the wonderstruck boggart's hands. In the next moment, they were in his mouth, as he chewed contentedly.
Giants sleep soundly and long, sometimes for long enough that a crust of earth and moss grows over them. But inevitably something disturbs their slumber, and they wake unhappy.
For the Scuzzback gang, it's always "raid o'clock."
Wort had a raiding-bellow that could shatter steel, melt auras, and slice countermagic in half.
"Some secrets want to be revealed. They burst through the soil of their own accord." —Dindun of Kulrath Mine
"He bears the marks of ages upon his skin, memories of dreams long dead and best left buried." —The Seer's Parables
"We're going to need a bigger gate." —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
The boar leads its rider to victory in battle, but it doesn't know how close it is to becoming the victory feast.
"I can stab you where it hurts, or where you will feel absolutely nothing." —Illulia of Nighthearth
Knowledge brings the sting of disillusionment, but the pain teaches perspective.
Cinder beliefs revolve around the Path of Sorrow, a spiritual descent into oblivion. They don't mind taking others on their journey down.
"Why allow the fires of others to burn, when ours do not? Why leave them content, while we suffer? If there is to be misery, let it be borne by all."
"Nothing warms my heart better than a spirit kindled with rage."
"What is a scar? A sign of courage in the face of danger? A mere trick of flesh? Or a constant reminder of agonizing pain, and the follies of war." —Illulia of Nighthearth
Wells that provide clean, unhaunted water are rare enough to be worth building an entire town around.
Cinder mystics set traps for sluaghs and other spirits of flame, seeking to extract the secrets of the fire their own hearts have lost.
Mounted cinders circle the blasted peak at Kulrath, hunting the Extinguisher.
"Unsafe Terrain Ahead—Turn Back" —Sign near the former location of Pyrtagh Cairn
When night fell, the plane itself was scarred.
Vengeance in stampede form.
"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed." —The Seer's Parables
"Your seared flesh will be the first step in your journey to dark enlightenment."
Cinders carry an ancestral grudge that makes them slow to trust and quick to retaliate.
After his hands had crumbled away, leaving only wickedly sharp points, he decided his only purpose was war.
"I doubt that faeries understand how short their lives are, compared to the rest of us. If they did, would they so readily charge into battle, heedless of the danger before them?" —Awylla, elvish safewright
Most dirtwalkers only know of the vicious merrows that dwell in the shallows. They can't begin to fathom the wickedness that skulks in the Dark Meanders.
"Some folk these days are too restless to dream the dreams we need. We need to teach them to stop and catch their breath."
"It's not a matter of deserving. It's a matter of strength. The power to hold versus the power to take."
Some words are too important to trust to something as fragile as memory.
"So now you've seen Glen Elendra. Take a good look. It will be the last thing you'll ever see."
Grimeblotters spend so much time in the Dark Meanders that they're able to bring a piece with them wherever they go.
"Vengeance is the echo of the victim's own crime." —Grensch, merrow cutthroat
The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind.
No one can navigate the dank maze of Shadowmoor's rivers better than the cruel and covetous merrows. They use the currents to steal—and to steal away.
"Their sharp scales would make good armor, if they'd just stay dead." —Taeryn, cinder armorkeep
Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands.
"He is a ghost that has never known life." —The Seer's Parables
"The cinders find strength in suffering, the elves in beauty. But if you make an elf suffer, he gets weaker. I wonder what happens if you make a cinder beautiful?" —Hrugash, leech bonder
Awylla tried hard to forget the horrors she had seen, but someone else had developed a keen interest in them.
"'Tis a strange creature indeed that chooses the vanquished over the victor." —Awylla, elvish safewright
Parapet watchers patrol the outer edges of the doun, signaling to others who wait patiently in shadow.
The Aurora is not the only magic capable of remaking a world.
"Did you expect me to dodge? How quaint." —Olka, mistmeadow witch
The kithkin mind-bond is even tighter in Shadowmoor, reinforcing the unity of their community to the point of xenophobia.
The thoughtweft is his informant, and he its devoted guardian.
Any being that harms them quickly learns its lesson.
"Are you tired? You look tired."
"The bigger they are, the more fun it is to watch them fall flat on their faces."
Stripped of his sight, he was free to see only the ideal.
"It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold." —Grensch, merrow cutthroat
Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought.
"Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind." —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
"What she saw crawling upon this world repulsed her. Yet she could not tear her gaze away." —The Seer's Parables
In the reflection, she saw the rough shell of the world sloughing away, revealing the truth shining underneath.
The giant's real punishment was the fleeting moment when he was allowed to stand before being dragged down to his knees again.
"Boggarts are easy to get around. Just toss some mutton in another direction. Giants are a little harder. You have to be quick to avoid their steps. Cinders are the difficult ones, but even they have fears to be exploited."
Moonstones grant limited foresight but unlimited advantages.
Some elves battled too long in the deep shadow, their swords dipped too often in tainted flesh and poisoned blood.
In the wisps that night, the once timid boggart saw all the terrible, bloody things he was capable of. And it was glorious.
The last survivor of her patrol, the warrior returned expecting disappointment and scorn. Instead she found gratitude. "You are alive. That is reason to celebrate."
Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late.
He didn't hear the cries of the treefolk whose branches he snapped or of the elves caught underfoot. He had eyes only for the path ahead.
"Raven's Run has awoken, and ravens will no longer cry in its branches." —Roon Ghastbark
In times of portent, the land sculpts itself in accordance with the sigils burned on the sky.
"Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest."
The elves alone preserve the few shreds of beauty left. There is no one else who cares.
Despite its darkness, Shadowmoor doesn't want for growth. Legions of creeping things thrive in the shade.
Gloomwidow venom is particularly virulent during the spider's first years, when it does most of its hunting near the forest floor.
If a spriggan's eyes are larger than its stomach, it has ways to remedy the situation.
The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl.
Each night, gloomwidows cull fresh prey for their ravenous hatchlings.
When gloomwidows mature, they abandon venom in favor of massive webs that span the eaves of cliffs.
"The brethren shall blaze with unnatural fire, and the flame shall consume and purify our rage." —Treefolk catastrophe myth
Many horrors take the bait of brave elf volunteers walking alone, only to fall to the blades of rescuers lurking nearby.
"Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety."
"The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness."
Some things aren't worth waiting for.
"Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart."
Seven wives made seven pies from seven apples, each plucked from its branches. Now bare and bitter, it comes to exact its price: one apple, one bone.
Though the shaman rarely got what she wanted, she was never disappointed in the result.
The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher.
"I need a better hiding place."
A Bloodwort's blade is salted with blood and peppered with rust, seasoning and slaughtering in a single swipe.
Vengeance is a dish best served twice.
His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch.
Cinder pyromancers measure their success by counting their enemies' smoking holes.
The cinders believe their flame was stolen by one they call the Extinguisher. All who now wield fire draw their desperate wrath.
Before a raid, the members of Wort's gang egg each other on with tales of their hunger and what they'll do to sate it, each outdoing the last.
Witches tempted by the power of flame gathered to study in the ruins of Spinerock Knoll.
It woke to find a vast world in need of a master.
When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions.
Don't stand in his way, for his way is full of pointy things and fire.
If you think you made it past him alive, he's just teasing you.
Strategies don't come easily to the boggarts' feral minds, but full-on assault hasn't failed them yet.
Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy.
"Terrible wind. It whipped sparks into our skin, then stoked them even hotter!" —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
Do not disturb.
The whispers are incomprehensible, yet cinders always hear a message of urgency.
Each night that his bowl fills, a village mourns.
The Aurora transformed Nibb and Gyik from mischief-makers into feral marauders. They still don't know much about tool safety.
Cinder mages enjoy seeing their victims in the throes of bloodlust—and seeing the regret that inevitably follows.
Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat.
Any kithkin smith would love to catch a dieflyn for her kiln, relieving her of ever having to gather fuel again.
The mission of the Nighthearth, Illulia's cult of murderous cinders, is to intensify every pain suffered in Shadowmoor.
What the vigor of life builds up, agony tears down again.
All faeries delve for dreams. But not all wait for their victims to fall asleep.
"Life is a circle. Death is a vicious circle."
His sickle was forged in the heat of another cinder's funeral pyre.
The mystic bond between spellcasters and the land is just as vulnerable to attack as the casters themselves.
Many have heard the beginning of its low, sustained shriek but few the end.
"Don't look upon still waters without first breaking the surface. The korrigan will catch you with her gaze and drag you to your death." —Kithkin superstition
Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair.
Dreams of dark nights to come are said to stir in the minds of scheming hollowsages.
It leaves a trail of crumpled trees and dashed dreams.
Death stings the victim only once, but those left behind feel the pain of loss with every passing memory.
The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other.
They spawn from shadow, wreaking chaos until shadow claims them again.
They envy the life-giving heat so much that they tear it from those who still possess it.
There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat.
Guttering cinders stoke their dying flames by snuffing out the lights of others.
Thick smoke billows and twists to form disturbing faces that cackle and click their teeth to the popping embers.
Not all coals lie quietly in their beds of cold ash.
When the giant Tollek Worldslayer fell, a corruption erupted from his corpse to carry on his name.
Those who hear her go mad with inspiration.
"None will concede a place for us in this world. If it is not for us, neither shall it be for them. We rest not until they choke in its cold ashes." —Illulia of Nighthearth
Merrows skulk the silty bogs around the Wanderbrine, their very thoughts stained with evil.
"Thought? Deceit? Progress? Now you're just making it hungry." —Abral, kithkin alchemist
Knowledge fills the mind of a fool and opens the mind of the sage.
Warrik Brutehexer felt betrayed that his aura favored the depths of the Wanderbrine River over its rightful place, hovering around him.
The merrow took a moment for herself. She never gave it back.
Kithkin spellbottlers spend half their time preserving old memories and the other half punishing the new.
"Seeing is believing" is a fact the merrows ruthlessly exploit in their dealings with the other residents of Shadowmoor.
A kithkin doun is not so much a town as a fortress, built to withstand the constantly besieging darkness. Only those most watchful and trustworthy are tasked with guarding its walls.
The merrows' prey have retreated from the shore, so they have learned to follow.
Some don't know his face, but his pets are a dead giveaway.
Most of the Knacksaw clique's skills were hewn from the minds of others.
The suspicious kithkin of Kinscaer patrol the skies, their eyes attuned to the shapes of outsiders.
The more deadly the lake monster, the shorter the tale.
Korrigans, spirits bound to sources of water, shriek when they come upon their own drowned corpses.
"Beware the merrows, whose envy and covetousness surpasses even that of the ravenous whirlpools where they dwell." —The Book of Other Folk
Untouched by the Aurora, Oona's faeries greeted the night like any other day.
Nothing satisfies a merrow as much as drowning what it cannot have.
The rivers can no longer provide safe passage for travelers and commerce. They serve only as highways for raiders and channels for blood and woe.
"Of all the things that can be stolen, opportunity is the most valuable."
"Dreams are fleeting. Reality even more so." —Oona, queen of the fae
"If you see ghostly lights by the river, eat three twigs of marshroot to ward off kelpies." —Kithkin superstition
A clique can cause far more mischief than one faerie on its own.
A chain of lies as strong as steel.
One head senses the curse. The second loosens it from the soul. The third drinks it as an invigorating mist.
It awakened to gloom-fouled skies and responded with a righteous rage that shook the heavens.
"All glamers lifted, all lies revealed, all flesh exposed." —Awylla, elvish safewright
"The dead have it easy. They suffer no more. If breaking their rest helps the living, so be it." —Olka, mistmeadow witch
"These bracers were worn by my father and by his mother before him. Boggart fangs have shattered on them. Cinder flames have withered at their touch. While I wear them, the safehold will not fall."
Things of beauty are in constant peril. The riders whisk them to safety, ahead of the encroaching darkness.
Thoughtweft gives new meaning to the phrase "common knowledge."
Clear out the cell. Bring in the next prisoner.
As it wandered Shadowmoor, it did not remember its crime—only its shame.
Made from the clay of burial mounds, the face paint of the priests is a sign of their respect for those whose rest they interrupt.
In a world devoid of sun, illumination comes from cheerless fires or the wandering spirits of the dead.
Doyo suspected the boggarts of brewing a plot against his crop, so he scythed away his grain to clear the sightlines.
The dead serve as their own tombstones.
"Tsk. You'd think those nasty merrows would know how to hold their breath." —Olka, mistmeadow witch
The nova glyph is a potent symbol. A shield embossed with it can resist the force of even the most determined giant.
If even the slightest hint of panic enters the thoughtweft, bakers, potters, and even medics drop their spoons and salves to take up arms.
Driven by their paranoia, kithkin inflict on their foes all the agonies they believe would have been inflicted on them.
A delicate veil of glamers can prove as sturdy as iron.
Ordinary moths follow it, drawn to its light.
Kithkin healers chant the clan songs of both their parents over the broth to double its curative effect.
His dreams are filled with noxious powders and clinking vials.
A kithkin's worst enemy is solitude.
"Why enchant feathers to make them sturdy when we can enchant shields to make them fly?" —Braenna, cobblesmith
Kithkin jealously hoard their knowledge of poultices and remedies so that no outside threat can benefit from their wisdom.
"His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed." —The Seer's Parables
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
If you've never choked on the embers of your own spell, you aren't casting it hard enough.
Some changelings born at Velis Vel never return, but their essence never leaves.
It's the flint that sparks a warrior's rage.
A chorus of howls answers his call.
"Changes far greater than the turning of the leaves await us at season's end." —Colfenor, the Last Yew
Once a famed hunter and packmaster, now a renegade seeking his own path.
Growth has no limits.
"After the Rising, a treefolk's mind is as limber and green as its limbs, and is at its most receptive to our teachings."
Storms in Lorwyn don't patter on village rooftops, but rather drench the clachan in rays of amber light.
"Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections."
"Study the great spirits of our age and those of the past. Prune secrets from the branching traceries of our lineage." —Twila, Gilt-Leaf archdruid
"My arrows will ever find you."
"In our hands, the natural world finds more beauty than nature alone could ever provide."
"I pity them, never knowing the pleasures of a single familiar form, but at least they find a noble shape at times." —Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
"May you rise again, from seed to sapling to sentience."
As graceful as a deer leaping a stream and as deadly as the wolf waiting in ambush on the other side, elvish warriors are the eyes of the forest as well as its unsheathed claws.
Gremil finally felt in touch with nature—and felt a need to share the experience with others.
The more pleasant an illusion's garb, the more indecent its form laid bare.
Those who seek to escape her blades succeed only in dying on their stomachs.
Deep in a murmuring bosk, where the trees' memories span centuries, the simple banner of green and copper signifies an elder whose rings number more than a faerie's days.
Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above.
"Aren't there boggarts enough in Lorwyn? Couldn't it turn into a sheep? Or a sunflower?" —Olly of Goldmeadow
The flame of a warrior is never extinguished.
The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind.
A spark to light the guttered heart.
A path vexed by the stingmoggie was probably the wrong path anyhow.
Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands.
"It is the nature of souls that they burn more brightly together than apart." —Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
"Let the mountain's teeth pierce our oppressors."
More, more, more!
"Flamekin death rites are elaborate and spectacular affairs. Their greatest fear is death in obscurity." —Tollek Worldwatcher, journal
One voice is but a pebble to the rest of the world. A thousand voices at once is an avalanche.
They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die.
"One's plenty," observed the merrow. "Way too plenty," agreed the boggart.
"All beings carry the fire inside them. The challenge is to unleash it before they dwindle into oblivion." —Illulia, flamekin soulstoke
Lorwyn's crust explodes with power when the greater elementals are born. The flamekin use the fallout as cover for forays into enemy territory.
The banner symbolizes the goodwill of the Brighthearth. Their emissaries bring the mastery of fire to other races.
Giants share nothing but their fury.
"Now everyone knows what you are."
Even if giants bring nothing else on a journey, they bring attention.
All boggarts have an auntie, but they don't all have a mum.
"When Byoog reached down to pull up a bit of root for the stew, he didn't expect the root to pull back." —A tale of Auntie Wort
"And that's when it was discovered that boggarts have just half a brain." —The Book of Other Folk
A faerie is the offspring of Oona and mischief.
"Many believe it to be the manifestation of all that is vile about the boggarts. I believe it should be avoided—from upwind, if possible." —Cenn Deagan
"Rejoice, eyeblight. In your last hours above the earth, those who bury you will finally make you beautiful."
"Even without the spines, who would dare to touch it?" —Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
Like the sun to a flower, the adoring gaze of the tribe is sustenance to an elf. To be shunned is to wither.
Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing.
Maralen sent Veesa, Endry, and Iliona—the Vendilion clique—on the gravest of tasks.
The Frogtossers thread feathers, bones, and trophies from past raids into their standards, believing they fuel the warren with the anger of its victims.
Many heroes' last sight is a grin at the other end of a rapier.
A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation.
"What is drowned is not forgotten. I will fulfill my oath. Come back to me, my brethren, as I have come back for you."
"See the beauty in death: the clean white bones lying in the fertile soil and the brightly colored moonglove sprouting from the fell earth."
In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief.
Dreams are tempting because one is so powerful in them. Dreams are dangerous because that power is a lie.
Made from trout scales and crawfish whiskers, merrows' shimmering banners flash in the water like lightning.
"The reflection is true. It is you who are distorted and false."
"Curse these merrows and their meddling! Since coming near the river, I can't so much as sneeze without being soaked." —Ashling the Pilgrim
"There is no secret that cannot be sold."
Masters of the arcane savor a delicious irony. Their study of deep and complex arcana leads to such a simple end: the ability to say merely yes or no.
"Ever seen a changeling fly into a lantern?" —Calydd, kithkin farmer
Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight.
"The world above the waterline must be monitored—and, when necessary, adjusted."
You may as well try to swat a faerie —Flamekin expression meaning "that's impossible"
Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her.
Gryffid scowled at the sky. A perfect day for the hunt tainted by clouds. He wished them gone. High above, the clouds looked down, scowled, and made a wish of their own.
Only in dew from Oona herself is there clarity enough to see a victim's mind.
Every story, even a faerie tale, comes to an end.
Sometimes the weight of the world on your shoulders is a literal one.
His tales are as tall as he is, and only a giant's life is long enough to listen to them all.
"Tideshaping is more than creating a few new puddles."
Merrow schools rarely form by design. They come together naturally as eager learners surround the wisest teachers.
"No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool."
"If you need an example to lead others to the front lines, consider the precedent set."
"Should you take it in mind to ride a springjack, remember: there are easier ways to fly, and harder ways to break your skull." —Lann of Cloverdell
His aim is as sure as a mosquito's sting, but with none of the warning.
Ambidexterity is common among kithkin. The thoughtweft links the minds of the left- and right-handed, giving each the knack of the other.
"Odum and Broadbark were the only beings mighty enough to challenge the giant Moran the Destroyer. Their battle lasted a hundred dawns, until Moran became so exhausted that he fell into namesleep. He awoke as Moran the Gardener." —The Tale of Odum and Broadbark
"If one's life is blessed, solutions to all life's problems will appear at the right moment." —The Book of Kith and Kin
"In my moment of death, I had a vision of the world, dark and unwelcoming. I wanted to hide in the deepest meander, but the light pulled me back."
"Suddenly there stood a fortress protecting the clachan, its walls hewn of valor and mortared with honor." —Clachan Tales
"There are all kinds of strengths, but if you have strength of soul, the others will follow." —Galanda Feudkiller
What self-indulgence tears down, discipline builds up again.
There's nothing more unsettling than locking blades with something that looks just like you.
The choke point was the plan, but devoted camaraderie was always her strategy.
Soul and bones, kithkin are woven into their clans. They fight fiercely and without self-interest.
The flasks provide ballast, a means of steering, and—with a little luck—a way to deliver ward-spells to cohorts below.
"I do not heal. Healing means that the pain has already been felt. To stop suffering, one must prevent the world's wounds altogether."
Only wool from the side of the springjack turned most often to the sun can be woven into kithkin battle standards. Jackherds record every movement of their woolly-jacks until shearing.
One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
Even after a false god tore magic from Dominaria, power still radiated from the Mirari sword that slew her.
"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
Once heard, the battle song of an angel becomes part of the listener forever.
"We've endured your slights to Gaea with the grace of tolerance. Now behold the grace of our ferocity."
The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul.
Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end.
"We're going to need a bigger gate." —Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain
A full coffin is like a full coffer-both are attractive to thieves.
"A well-trained force brings peace... which brings more time for training!"
"Catch!"
To the Krark Clan, every artifact has a trigger and a barrel.
Raissa transformed herself into a vessel for the Watchword Codex, allowing the arcane lore to flow through her body.
Root systems in Mwonvuli twist through currents of mana rather than soil.
Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more. —War blessing of Serra
The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive.
Gaea needs no book to record every act.
Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave.
Well, at least all of that arm-waving and arcane babbling you did was impressive.
"Thanks! You shouldn't have."
"Thanks! You shouldn't have."
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious." —A tale of Auntie Grub
"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide." —Kumano, to his pupils
Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate.
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ." —A tale of Auntie Grub
In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die." —Braids, dementia summoner
He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.
"I order you to volunteer."
"Release chaos with me!"
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."
There's always room for one more.
Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling.
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master.
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.
No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
Two times the size, four times the smell.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing." —Seton, centaur druid
The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
It drinks fatigue.
The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back.
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts.
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
The Mirari pulses in his veins.
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
"Channel your vitality through me."
"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."
Below the great river, a bustling hub channels the flow of merrow trade.
Once each year, the sun's rays reach the hidden chamber of Velis Vel, and the changelings congregate from afar to bathe in the ever-shifting light.
Protected by glamers and guile, Glen Elendra harbors the elusive Oona, queen of the fae.
Dawn's Light, greatest palace of Gilt-Leaf Wood, is built on tiers of wood and power.
The Stinkdrinker warren's hill of salvaged trinkets is large enough to cut a door in.
The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective.
For every tree who falls, there are countless sprouts waiting to rise.
It takes two to craft a mirror: a practiced metalsmith to silver one side and her own hazy reflection to polish the other.
Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic.
Mined from a cave in the Dark Meanders, it shines brightest when no one is looking.
After trying mudskippers for an afternoon, Scratch decided that crickcarp made the best noise.
When a changeling adopts a form no other changeling has taken, a rune appears in the caverns of Velis Vel to mark the event.
"Without flame, there would be no iron tools, no cooked meals, no purge of old growth to make room for new." —Brighthearth creed
Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant.
"Apply orange leaf to a wound at dawn to clean it, at dusk to prevent the same injury from happening again." —Kithkin superstition
Lorwyn's stones resonate with the place from which they were hewed. Though taken far, still they call to their home when silence is upon the land.
In a world of bright, cloudless skies, she is the dark storm on the horizon.
Auntie always knows which berries to lick, which kithkin to trick, and what to do when either goes wrong.
"If there's a place worth going, the Merrow Lanes already do. And if there's a route worth taking, yours truly already has."
A savage hunter with a prince's bearing.
Even the oldest treefolk was but an acorn when Lorwyn's first mysteries were born.
So great is his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds.
"Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble."
Changelings cannot resist the draw of a new shape, even if doing so would be in their best interests.
"If one can associate any virtue with the eyeblights, it is the talent some achieve in disposing of them. I have seen the slaying of boggarts raised nearly to an art form." —Fiala, Gilt-Leaf winnower
In his presence, an ordinary grove becomes a bastion to turn spells and break armies.
It takes a huntmaster's eye to discern the contours of mythical prey.
"May you shade three generations of seedlings."
"All the sylvan secrets of this world are etched between my rings. The skinfolk's metal aberrations can rot between my roots." —Colfenor, the Last Yew
"Roam as you will, your roots remain in the strong earth of your Rising."
"Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty."
From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull.
Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his feet be so thirsty?
Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born.
"A ribbon torn will ward away dark dreams."
"Which is more filled with poison: the flower of the moonglove or the minds of elves?" —Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
Eidren's hunts are dangerous affairs. All dread the inevitable recounting of those who died while flushing out his prey.
The kith dance their elaborate reels not merely to celebrate the events of their lives but to form an unbreakable bond of loyalty with their kin, a bond stronger than the fear of death itself.
"Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size." —Kithkin superstition
In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods.
Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art.
"Springjacks and faeries can be difficult to hunt, but my favorite prey are the flamekin. They never fail to put up a worthy fight when cornered."
Elvish battle-magic has evolved two specialties: inflicting wounds that scar, and healing wounds without scarring. Politics determines the recipients of each.
Although they're protective of all creatures, many treefolk are especially fond of the empathic kithkin.
Desmera blinded her seers so that her beauty would be the last image burned in their memories. The act only deepened their insight.
Pretty, valuable, and delicious—a boggart thief's trifecta.
Calm as a wisent's watch —Elvish expression meaning "safe"
From mite to mighty.
The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator.
The hardest lesson for any elf to learn is humility. It takes a giant to teach that.
"No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn."
"How do the vinebred feel? Fah! We do not ask the puppet how it feels when the puppeteer bids it dance."
"Clever folk build their homes near cloudcrowns. If a hawk or even just a faerie tries to swoop in, it'll get swatted from here to Cloverdell." —Calydd, kithkin farmer
"If you want to test wisdom, offer it to fools and watch how they tear it up."
"I knew that trick long before your great-grandmother's great-grandmother was born."
He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear.
"After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious." —A tale of Auntie Grub
"Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ." —A tale of Auntie Grub
A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books.
Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub.
When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge.
"Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame."
"First it was plovers and mulldrifters. Now it's knitting needles the size of javelins." —Calydd, kithkin farmer
The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart.
"I don't know why the little one was so mad. He said to put him down, and I put him down."
A light an army can follow.
Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude."
"Things were popping like corn in a skillet. Olly landed in the pig pen with his prize sow on top of him, both squealin' like boggarts." —Deagan, cenn of Burrenton
"Better to flare out than to gutter." —Flamekin expression
The flamekin are mere kindling for his warmth.
"If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear." —Gaddock Teeg
Kith goats are just for practice. The real prize, of course, is a giant's cloudgoat.
The only feeling greater than hurling something a mile is crushing something else with it that was really, really irritating you.
Some flamekin warriors explore the art of coherence, an ancient discipline that harnesses the chaos of fire and focuses it with pinpoint precision.
When he hits people, they stay hit.
"The elves may try to confine us, but they will learn that our blazing spirit can never be suppressed." —Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
"My ears say it hisses. My fingers say it burns." —Auntie Wort
Five-toed grave —Kithkin phrase meaning "a giant's footprint"
"The elves use treefolk to drive us away. It is time to remove their tools." —Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue
Flamekins' fires burn cool until they decide otherwise.
"As far as I can tell, that frog dangling from the stick serves absolutely no purpose whatsoever." —Gaddock Teeg
"Auntie pointed out to the faerie how much mischief a flying boggart could wreak, and a beautiful new friendship was born." —A tale of Auntie Grub
Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate.
"Reach in this hole, lose a hand. Reach in that hole, find a sparkly." —Auntie wisdom
Among the solitude-loving giantkind, teamwork is unusual. But he appreciates hearing the occasional "Swing down and to your left."
"The changing kind suffers as we do. We must join as one to quench our tyrants!"
The angriest of giants are often the most skillful weaponsmiths. Their grudges fuel endless sessions at the forge, all the while growling ferociously to themselves.
"What do they need all this stuff for? They're dead. We're alive. Simple enough."
"Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind."
The crone's boughs creaked as she spoke. "You look peaked, little one. Come, sip from my warm brew. It'll have you blooming in no time."
"Why do our pies squeak? It's all the faeries, mice, and prickly-hogs we stuff inside." —Borb of the Squeaking Pie warren
Auntie Flint was the first to pioneer the spiderwig, a mass of arachnids intended to be worn rather than eaten.
Though they lack true flesh and bone of their own, changelings imitate either with equal ease.
For disfigured elves, there are few choices beyond death or nettlevine.
"A good day in Goldmeadow is one in which I don't spend all evening picking quills out of my backside." —Calydd, kithkin farmer
An elvish duel is a thing of beauty: the warriors' grace, the crash of steel, then the artful spray of blood.
Like being trapped in a perpetual sneeze, faerie-dust poisoning is both exhilarating and agonizing.
Deep in Glen Elendra blossoms Oona, queen of the faeries, nourished by secrets and pollinated by stolen dreams.
"Most faeries are harmless pranksters. Every now and again, though, you get one that crosses over from mischievous to malicious." —Gaddock Teeg
"The unpredictable fae are just as likely to provide a blight as a boon." —Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
Smik learned the elvish dance quickly enough. The most difficult, yet most important step was to stay out of Nath's sight until called to perform.
Just as a changeling's influence can have dramatic effects, so too can its sudden withdrawal.
It hoards Lorwyn's rare sorrows.
Winnowers live to eliminate eyeblights, creatures the elves deem too ugly to exist.
"This vulgar mimicry will end now." —Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run
One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented.
In beauty-obsessed Lys Alana, one cut of her blade means the difference between a high society feast and raking through the dungheap for scraps.
Each bone honors its owner's best pranks.
Snokk ran as fast as he could, but the sound of hooves grew ever louder in his ears.
"And though she didn't get her honey, Auntie found something far more interesting." —A tale of Auntie Grub
In desolate places, changelings may take the shape of fancies, or memories, or fears.
The scent of rot and vinegar fills the marsh, inviting boggarts from every warren to reunite and feast.
Leave it to a boggart to come up with a projectile as disgusting as it is deadly.
One whiff of the sweet, pungent scent leads to euphoria—or to an early grave.
Beneath the fae's constant pranks runs a subtler undercurrent of mockery: the influence of Oona, their hidden queen.
Boggarts get so excited when they find something new to smash that they really don't notice who gets underfoot.
"Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one." —Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana
Among the boggarts, there is only one real rule: all new treasures and experiences must be shared. Those who hoard their gifts commit the one truly unforgivable sin.
At night, the faeries steal dreamstuff for their queen. At daybreak, countless creatures wake weak and hollow.
Auntie Flint lent axes to Nibb and Gyik, thinking they'd share their experiences with her. She's still waiting for them to come back.
Auntie excitedly held up the squalling newborn. "This one looks like Byoog! Maybe he'll tell us what he saw and felt in the beyond."
It absorbs the pain of other treefolk, which leaves it bitter, yet addicted to the sensation of agony.
Faeries hang beings that interest them as ornaments in the sky, each clique competing to outshine the prize of the last.
Changeling magic grants unusual wishes.
A changeling involuntarily mimics the nearest being at hand, sometimes trading a borrowed shell for borrowed claws.
He paints with drop and shimmer a world that exists only in the wistful heart.
They ride on waves of Æther, washing out anything that might pollute the Merrow Lanes.
"We look in the river and see scattered stones. A merrow looks and sees a map of Lorwyn." —Illulia, flamekin soulstoke
"Water is in the air, the trees, and the earth. Understand its motion, speak its language, and the subtle currents that flow through all living things will fall under your command."
One glamer leads him far from home. The next washes away his memory that home was ever anywhere but at her side.
The Silvergill school monitors traffic on the Lanes, ensuring that the riffraff don't interfere with travelers.
"I bring baubles of lore, lost secrets seined from the listening waves."
One good mimic deserves another.
Some say the valley of Glen Elendra is mythical, and that rumors of its existence are nothing but a faerie prank. Others say it is the fae's most fiercely guarded secret.
Skilled merrow rudders ensure their charges arrive on time and without incident.
"We see the same sky as you, just through a different lens."
The fae know when they're not wanted. That's precisely why they show up.
Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school.
Schools meet and mingle on Lorwyn's riverways. In the bustling interplay, the merrow renew their sense of community as they sharpen their wits and hone their trading skills.
"None appreciate sun and shallows like those who have seen the depths." —Lianda of the Stonybrook school
The dreams of giants are as long as time and as deep as the earth. Thus they are prized by the dream-harvesting fae.
Victims spirited through a faerie ring find themselves stranded miles away.
"Petals within petals within petals, tadpole. The truth lurks below an opulence of illusion." —Neerdiv, fallowsage
Because of their capricious nature, faeries can serve as living lenses for disruptive magic.
Memories of ages past are said to swim the minds of lounging fallowsages.
The fae are so quick and their life spans so short that it's difficult to get retribution for their pranks.
Fallowsages debate whether the whiskergill is native to the Dark Meanders or merely dreamstuff made real.
When all is taken away, all are equal.
Merrows consider themselves the keepers of Lorwyn's past—and consider it their duty to edit when necessary.
"My success at navigating the Dark Meanders irritates the Inkfathom school. They consider themselves peerless divers, but I try to remind them that they cannot own commodities like bravery and cunning."
There is nowhere on Lorwyn that the Merrow Lanes cannot go.
"Thoughtweft binds us together as one, part of an intricate pattern that would unravel if even one thread came loose."
"You've discovered that boggarts bite, I see. And will the militia be chasing this lot? . . . Ah, you're staying in town to avoid Nath's hunt. Wise. Now this poultice . . ."
In the backwaters of the Merrow Lanes lie stones scarred with tallies of countless generations, each representing a victory of merrow soldiers.
Kithkin weave together their very thoughts, creating a depth of cooperation unknown to other races.
"When merrows talk, listeners grow fins." —Kithkin saying
Changelings can alter shape based on what the beings around them desire most.
The knights are a major attraction at every Lammastide festival. Teams of riders perform daring feats of flight to the delight of all below.
A circle of sugar and a word of forbiddance.
"We merrows need not be disadvantaged when fighting on land. We lack the vulnerability of those who breathe only through their throats." —Minnarin, merrow reejerey
Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over.
If you pick a fight with one kithkin, be ready to fight them all.
A giant can brood over a grudge for decades, and woe to those who interrupt him.
"By tradition, we don't speak for two days after battle. If our deeds won't speak for themselves, what else could be said?"
The empathetic nature of the thoughtweft allows kithkin healers to treat the cause of an illness rather than fight its symptoms.
Her ears are open to even the softest voice.
Sometimes a curious giant singles out a "little one" to follow for a few days, never realizing the effect it will have on the little one's life.
"If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy."
Even when a giant's tantrum turns the sky into a chaotic gale, the path of the balloonist never falters.
Though the currents of the Lanes shift every year, the merrow never lose track of where they are or where they are going.
The giants believe the fossils they find in Lorwyn's rocky heights are dreams frozen in time, and they treasure them.
Made from whiskergill bones, merrow spinebows can fire bolts through tree trunks.
The thoughtweft ties a clachan together. Sharing each other's hopes and fears, all the village's citizens spring into action upon the first threat to any one of them.
"It's a proven fact that sling-stones from the dawn side of the riverbank sail the farthest and truest." —Deagan, cenn of Burrenton
"I've gotten close enough to a giant to smell his breath, but none has ever so much as spotted me. I wonder how long my record can extend?"
"What does a mountain fear of a fly? Giants are barely aware of us, let alone afraid." —Gaddock Teeg
His home clachan's familial spirit bolsters his own, but he will be ready to preside over the town as cenn only after he learns to project that strength to others.
"We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening."
Thanks to one champion archer, the true borders of Kinsbaile extend an arrow's flight beyond the buildings.
"Boom Boom Boots the size of oxcarts, then an axe like a falling sun. Elves scattered. Trees scattered. Even the hills ran for the hills" —Clachan Tales
Today it flies with the flock. Tomorrow it may wake to find them gone, its body in an unfamiliar form.
Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die.
In the feudal days of Icatia, finding the Rainbow Vale was often the goal of knights' quests.
The Isle of Wak-Wak, home to a tribe of winged folk, is named for a peculiar fruit that grows there. The fruit looks like a woman's head, and when ripe speaks the word "Wak."
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"The fortress is not what it seems." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water.
Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the su-chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students.
The Pretender Mairsil ordered a great calendar drawn up to show when the paths to the Dark Lands were strongest.
"My soldiers know that they need never fear for their protection." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"This shield is a true rarity: an artifact whose purpose is obvious." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"Knowing its origins, how could they have thought they could control it?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come.
Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them.
Abandoning his sword to return to the lush forest of Pendelhaven, Jacques le Vert devoted his life to protecting the creatures of his homeland.
"There will come soft rains, and spring shall be amongst us, a welcome friend." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Relent, and you may transcend your situation." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"My power is as vast as the plains, my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins." —Dakkon Blackblade, Memoirs
"Centaurs will kill our aesthir if they can; they've always been enemies. Destroy the horse-people on sight." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
". . . And at his passing, the bodies of the world's great warriors shall rise from their graves and follow him to battle." —The Anvilonian Grimoire
"Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger." —Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, diary
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, King Lear
"The danger in cultivating massive plants caught the elves by surprise." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's power.
"I hear there are bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest." —Gulsen, abbey matron
Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the striders' territory.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
"That which nourishes can also bind." —Gemma, Willow Priestess
"It's strange, but I can feel it when the land is corrupted. I understand why the Autumn Willow is so protective." —Daria
"Fyndhorn is our home." —Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"If the air must feed, let it take the self-righteous." —Murat, death speaker
"Living side by side with the elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess." —Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order
"Chub toad, chub toad At the door. Run away quick Or you'll run no more." —Traditional children's rhyme
"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion." —Vervamon the Elder
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"'Tis the set of sails and not the gales Which tells us the way to go." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox, "Winds of Fate"
"What tries to crush our spirit only strengthens our resolve." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
What goes up, must come down.
"Striking silent as a dream, Cutting short the strangled scream . . ." —Tobrian, "Watchdragon"
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings.
"I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, The Underworld Cookbook
If only it had three brains, too.
"According to accepted theory, the grenade held some kind of flammable mixture and was carried to its target by a hapless goblin." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"Perhaps goblins are good for something after all." —General Khurzog
"Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?" —Plato, Phædo, trans. Jowett
"Let no one say we did not fight until the last . . . ." —Headstone fragment from a mass grave found in the Crimson Peaks
"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
The Crookshank military boasts a standing army of nearly twenty-four million, give or take twenty-two million.
Fire is never a gentle master.
"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the artifact blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created.
"Until the Rebellion, thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"Those idiots should never have bred thrulls for combat!" —Jherana Rure
"Phyrexia's touch is painful to all but the blackest of hearts." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Expect my visit when the darkness comes. The night I think is best for hiding all." —Ouallada
Knowing the hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transciptions.
"The lemures looked harmless, until they descended on my troops. Within moments, only bones remained." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"We are not yet free of Lim-Dûl's terrors." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest
Magic often masters those who cannot master it.
Even the putrid muscles of the dead can provide strength to those loathsome enough to consume them.
"Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result." —Execution order of Endrek Sahr, master breeder
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Initially bred for sacrifice, the thrulls eventually turned on their masters, the Order of the Ebon Hand, with gruesome results. —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain." —Ihsan's Shade
"It was in Urza's journals that I finally found the secret at the core of the summonings." —Journal, author unknown
Fear the knight leaping from the water into the air, weapon ready.
"No one can catch what won't be caught." —Kakra, sea troll
"Dwelling in icy mountain streams near goblin and orcish foes, the river merfolk were known for their stoicism." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. V
"It was big. Really, really, big. No, bigger than that. It was big!" —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
"Let them see what is not there and feel what does not touch them. When they no longer trust their senses, that is the time to strike." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"This school was founded in secret, operates in secret, and exists for the teaching of secrets. Those who would alter reality must first escape it." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"May Svyelun and her tides favor you." —Traditional merfolk blessing
"When one has witnessed the unspeakable, 'tis sometimes better to forget." —Vervamon the Elder
Few can withstand the wrath of the righteous.
What walks on four legs in the morning, two legs in the afternoon, and three legs in the evening?
"Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with orcish and goblin raiders." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the mesa pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a mesa pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
"With a great cry, the goblin host broke and ran as the first wave of knights penetrated its ranks." —Tivadar of Thorn, History of the Goblin Wars
Icatia's once peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
To become an officer, an Icatian soldier had to pass a series of tests. These evaluated not only fighting and leadership skills, but also integrity, honor, and moral strength.
"Bathed in hallowed light, the infidels looked upon the impurities of their souls and despaired." —The Book of Tal
"The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true." —Oliver Farrel
"On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie.
Tervish never noticed that the amulet had vanished. It had disappeared not only from his possession, but from his memory as well.
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.
"Such innocent little birds. They sing a sweet song, sitting on their fragile branch." —Grandmother Sengir
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, the archaeologist searches incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era.
2007 Vintage Championship Winner
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them.
"Once you create perfection, what else is there to make?" —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again." —Karn, silver golem
An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.
In its heart lies the secret of immortality.
In its heart lies the secret of immortality.
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew." —Kaervek
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work." —Urza, in his apprenticeship
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work." —Urza, in his apprenticeship
"Not by age but by capacity is wisdom gained." —Titus Maccius Plautus, Trinummus
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
"It's a clever design. You should look closely at its gearing after it swallows your head." —Jhoira, master artificer
"Every scratch tells a story, and every notch has a name. Four generations have held this blade. You shall not disappoint them." —Initiation of Laena, skyhunter
Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
Built with neither a way to steer nor a way to stop, the juggernauts were simply aimed at an enemy's best defenses and told to charge.
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
"Their buzzing makes my bones hum from a mile away." —Galenti, treasure hunter
"Their buzzing makes my bones hum from a mile away." —Galenti, treasure hunter
Some say the fountain's waters are the first rains that fell over Dominaria.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
The cube's surface is pockmarked with jagged runes that seem to shift when unobserved.
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
An artificer's experiment in cross-material engineering found its own purpose as an interpreter between cultures.
Buried under a thin layer of dirt, it was known for centuries as Mount Sardia.
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more."
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more."
Each note of the flute mimics the call of a different beast.
The staff unraveled in a chaotic chorus of clanging, becoming an improbable beast of hissing blades.
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations.
Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations.
She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.
Left to itself, nature overflows any container, overthrows any restriction, and overreaches any boundary.
Freyalise promised a dawn that would never end, a day of limitless life. As many dread her promise as revere it.
Freyalise promised a dawn that would never end, a day of limitless life. As many dread her promise as revere it.
It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
Gravity is truly what you make of it.
Gravity is truly what you make of it.
Only rumors have ever escaped its web.
Only rumors have ever escaped its web.
One glimpse of an elf's home lasts her weeks away in the wild.
"We're not sure what one looks like, so to be safe, nobody look at anything until we're out of here." —Parbold Drix, veteran explorer
The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days.
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.
Its spines act like the teeth of a saw, scoring distinctive marks in the vegetation of its territory.
Not even the elves truly know the Skyshroud Forest. The rangers are merely the best equipped to handle its uncertainty.
"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge.
To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window.
To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window.
If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.
Pause for the briefest of moments to consider the whorl of brambles, the tangled twist of bark, and the maze has already won.
It's as solid as the club in its hand—and about as subtle.
"A touch of vine sap in the blood, and the flesh knits as quickly as new roots twining." —Freyalise
"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language." —Savra
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
Ferocity and cunning accounted for half the victory. Gravity accounted for the rest.
"No fair Since when does a bug get ta munch on me?" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on me?" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
Nature doesn't walk.
"Let the forest spread! From salt, stone, and fen, let the new trees rise." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"Well, it also makes a very nice flower pot. . . ." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"Jewels cannot be eaten nor gold drunk. What civilization trades, nature simply provides." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"My mind is the spread of the canopy. My heart is the embrace of the roots. I am deathless Llanowar, its fury and its peace."
"Full of beauty and grace, with a predator's instincts. . . Although she wanders, I have always thought Mirri belongs in Llanowar most of all." —Rofellos, Llanowar emissary
"Let my strength harden your resolve."
"Let my strength harden your resolve."
"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
Her true theft was to steal the soldiers away from their posts.
Her true theft was to steal the soldiers away from their posts.
"The forest has as many eyes as leaves." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"There was a crack of branches, a rustle of leaves, then a tremendous roar. Our party had no chance as death descended from above." —Taseen, elvish bard
The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow.
A talented apprentice makes all things. The master makes all things possible.
"Don't envy the grandeur of drakes. Their impression of grace fades when the first gust sends them crashing into one another." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
"We cannot forget that among all of Dominaria's wonders, a system of life exists, with prey and predators that will never fight wars nor vie for ancient power." —Jolrael, empress of beasts
"When I trained under Multani, he bade me sit for hours watching Yavimaya's spiders. From them I learned stealth, patience, and the best way to snare a wind drake." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"When I trained under Multani, he bade me sit for hours watching Yavimaya's spiders. From them I learned stealth, patience, and the best way to snare a wind drake." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Gaea sings with the voice of nature rampant: a thousand howls, chitters, and cries, and none of them can be ignored."
"Bet you can't put it through the eye." "Left or right?"
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Elvish hymn
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Elvish hymn
Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves.
"Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here."
Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
"Before armor, there was bark. Before blades, there were thorns." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
In their most desperate hour, the elves of Llanowar had one song left to sing.
The power of the wild, concentrated in a single charge.
The erupting flames work as both barrier and weapon.
The erupting flames work as both barrier and weapon.
A viashino's overlapping scales form a buffer against Shiv's ash-flecked winds and a slippery target for goblin pikes.
"It moved this way, an' that way, an' then before I could stick it, it jumped over my head an' was gone." —Jula, goblin raider
A barbarian's heart pounds with the fury of a prisoner, threatening at any moment to break the bars of its cage.
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.
Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.
"Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them." —Dravus, lava mage
"Fortunately, merfolk aren't used to opponents with feet." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Some goblins are expendable. Some are impossible to get rid of. But he's both—at the same time!" —Starke
"Within each of you is the strength of a landslide." —Kumano, to his pupils
Vulshok shamans could never keep them alive for more than a few seconds, yet those few seconds seemed to be enough.
Ravnica's laws protect not its citizens but its industry. Aging equipment is destroyed rather than restored, to bring more money into the factories' coffers.
Aranghil held her fury in her heart, hard and bright as a ruby. With its razor edge, she rewrote the laws of battle.
A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.
A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
From a marvel of magical mechanization to a smoking stack of scrap in one easy step.
Earth arms itself with fire.
Late at night, ululations echo from deep under Shiv, as the wurms sing of times older than humanity.
"As it charged our keep, I mistook it for a bear. After it tore through our ramparts and half the guard, I wished it had been a bear after all." —Ballista guard
"As it charged our keep, I mistook it for a bear. After it tore through our ramparts and half the guard, I wished it had been a bear after all." —Ballista guard
"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Let my passion spur your victory."
"Let my passion spur your victory."
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
"What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man."
"So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game." —General Khurzog
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges." —Kamahl, pit fighter
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
"Her voice is disaster, painful and final." —Matoc, lavamancer
"Catch!"
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
"Now listen closely, my young gob. There are many ways to eat pimple bugs, but I say the best way is all smashed together between two slug chips."
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
They talk a good fight.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
"Like an avalanche. With teeth. That will chase you. Uphill." —Flint Foot, viashino runner
Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse.
Gron's mind reeled with possibilities, most of which are best left unmentioned.
"Cradle your rage close to your heart and nurture your grudge with hatred that you may unleash upon your foes a dragon's fury." —Tomor, dragonspeaker shaman
Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"Boss told us to try and train 'em. Trained it to attack—it ate Flugg. Trained it to run fast—it got away. Success!" —Dlig, goblin spelunker
Dragons erupt from peaks of chaos and flow from rivers of molten rage.
Dragons erupt from peaks of chaos and flow from rivers of molten rage.
"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits." —Dwarven forging song
The people of Terisiare had come to live on frozen fields as though on solid ground. Nothing reminded them of the difference more clearly than the rifts brought on by the Thaw.
"The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"There are only fifty words in the cyclops language, and ten of them mean 'kill.'" —Ertai
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.
The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost.
Not all knowledge is learned from parchment.
"They who challenge a minotaur enjoy the taste of their own blood." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"They who challenge a minotaur enjoy the taste of their own blood." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
"Just take a little off the top."
In Urborg, the instigators of each new rebellion are soaked in the blood of the last.
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
"I smell the tang of a mortal's fresh blood. I hear it sliding wetly beneath its skin. My hunger cannot refuse the invitation." —Yuri, Sengir vampire
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
As Barrin exhumed his daughter's body, he finally realized the full price of his faith in Urza.
Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal.
"When mortals die, they have family, friends, compatriots to mourn them. When the land dies, all else dies with it, and there is no one left to weep." —Jacinth, Skyshroud ranger
No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
"The soul? Here, we have no use for such frivolities." —Sitrik, birth priest
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
His victims don't have time to feel despair.
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace. —Nantuko teaching
The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones.
The crowd roared, the fighters bled, and the dead piled high in the pits. Only the Cabal could win.
"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them." —Volrath
Bury old friends deeply, lest they return bearing worms.
"Pain is both a tool and a craft. Like any tool, it must be sharpened. Like any craft, it must be practiced." —Hooks, Cabal torturer
"An army has filled the valley, but it's not like any army I've ever seen. There are no tents, no fires, no horses . . . just a sea of bodies, writhing and moaning, as if a pestilent village were sent to invade us." —Onean scout
"Do not weep at your defeat, my dear. In death, you will serve a greater purpose—mine."
Its form never rests, propelled by some undetectable gale from beyond the gloom.
"Challenge me with your strongest. I will paint my sword with their blood."
Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams.
"Tonight, madam, it's your money and your life."
If the presence of evil were obvious, it wouldn't be nearly as dangerous.
"Let my hate fuel your fury."
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"Her voice is damnation, unyielding and certain." —Phage the Untouchable
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
"Even the bravest of warriors yet knows the dark clutch of fright upon his stalwart heart." —Lim-Dûl the Necromancer
"The elves are right: Death inevitably leads to life. But the truly powerful don't just experience this cycle. They control it." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"As soon as it surfaced, we could all smell it. Its rancid breath reeked of half-digested carrion and its own rotting innards." —Dafri, Auriok champion
Many necromancers share the same last words—the ones that conclude the undeath ritual.
"They say the eyes are the windows to the soul. I like to break windows and take what's inside." —Braids, dementia summoner
The best ideas often come from the worst minds.
"I hope it's true that every snowflake is unique, because I never want to see one like this again. Now clean up that body." —Thangbrand Gyrdsson, Kjeldoran patrol
"Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last." —Phage the Untouchable
"My favorite curses are those that manifest slowly, blackening the soul in ways the victim cannot hope to understand." —Erissa, bog witch
"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine." —Mayvar, minion of Geth
Knowing Takenuma Swamp to be dangerous, Hisata set wards to warn him of predators. He never imagined that his murderer would pass through them unhindered.
Knowing Takenuma Swamp to be dangerous, Hisata set wards to warn him of predators. He never imagined that his murderer would pass through them unhindered.
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.
"This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed." —Yurin, royal assassin
His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow.
In the aftermath of war, when the slaying is long done, the greatest miseries come home to roost.
One rarely notices a heartbeat, save when it is stolen.
When no falcons fly, beware the sky. —Femeref aphorism
When no falcons fly, beware the sky. —Femeref aphorism
The vedalken see other beings from a cold distance, as either experimental subjects or objects of study.
Tolarian apprentices learn to liberate Ætheric energy long before they are taught to bind it.
Battles are won in nuance.
Imitation is the most dangerous form of flattery.
"The educated mind is heavy with lore and knowledge. It's also the most likely to collapse under its own weight." —Ambassador Laquatus
There's lots of time like the present.
"Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face." —Barrin, master wizard
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs.
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs.
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
"The question isn't whether I can read minds. It's whether I have yet to find a mind worth reading." —Ambassador Laquatus
"I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough." —Ambassador Laquatus
It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
The irritable drakes are solitary nesters. Even brooding females barely contain the urge to attack their own young.
The irritable drakes are solitary nesters. Even brooding females barely contain the urge to attack their own young.
"Let my wisdom give you wings."
"Let my wisdom give you wings."
Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.
"I leave words like 'impossible' to the rabble. Whatever I can imagine, I can create." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
It's easy to believe the monster is a myth—until you feel three hundred thousand pounds of myth crashing down on your ship.
In the harsh depths of Rootwater, the charms of surface dwellers are quite useless . . . except as lures.
Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever.
Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever.
"Some say you cannot hit what you cannot see. I prefer that you hit what I want you to see." —Arcanis the Omnipotent
When your enemies are denied soldiers, they are denied victory.
Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges.
"That's the funny thing about free will. You don't feel any different without it." —Ambassador Laquatus
"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
"There are as many pillows of illusion as flakes in a snow-storm. We wake from one dream into another dream." —Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Illusions"
There's no telling what an accomplished mage might collect.
There's no telling what an accomplished mage might collect.
Sometimes you have to read between the minds.
"The world, I've come to realize, is a blank canvas on which to paint." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
It belongs to the merfolk now. —Shipwreck prayer
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
The wardens keep watch over an endless sea of progress.
Hurkyl's research at the College of Lat-Nam wasn't enough to stop the two brothers, but for centuries thereafter her spellcraft taught artificers restraint.
"Hmm . . . It looks kinda like a bug. Let's crack it open an' see if it tastes like one!" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"The law has its place—as a footnote in my spellbook." —Siyani, fugitive mage
"It's the perfect sentry. Those who should pass can go right through it." —Teferi
"It's the perfect sentry. Those who should pass can go right through it." —Teferi
"Nature? Fire? Bah! Both are chaotic and difficult to control. Ice is structured, latticed, light as a feather, massive as a glacier. In ice, there is power!" —Heidar, Rimewind master
"Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are." —Alexi, zephyr mage
"Her voice is insight, piercing and true." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
"I said 'pick his brain,' not 'tear off his head.'" —Riptide Project researcher
According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night.
"From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better." —Emperor Aboshan
The viashino used the spell to dry foods for crossing the Great Desert. The Suq'Ata later discovered its use in war.
Follow the pathmage —Otarian expression meaning "escape quickly"
"Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth."
The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
The soratami surround their sky-castles with living clouds that serve as both sword and shield.
The soratami surround their sky-castles with living clouds that serve as both sword and shield.
Cephalids don't police people. They police loyalties.
Early Jamuraan hunters devised a weapon that would return to its source. Tolarian Aethermancers developed a spell that skipped the weapon entirely.
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
"It's not really stealing. It's more like extended borrowing."
"Do not concern yourself with my origin, my race, or my ancestry. Seek my record in the pits, and then make your wager."
"Life is a game. The only thing that matters is whether you're a pawn or a player."
"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab." —Joseph Conrad, The Mirror of the Sea
"The East Wind, an interloper in the dominions of Westerly Weather, is an impassive-faced tyrant with a sharp poniard held behind his back for a treacherous stab." —Joseph Conrad, The Mirror of the Sea
They brandish their latest theories as warriors would wield weapons.
Idealism fits him better than his armor.
Idealism fits him better than his armor.
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless." —Akroma, angelic avenger
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless." —Akroma, angelic avenger
"I abandoned my dream of a squadron of griffin-riders when the cost proved too high. Three trainers were eaten for every griffin broken to the bridle." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"I abandoned my dream of a squadron of griffin-riders when the cost proved too high. Three trainers were eaten for every griffin broken to the bridle." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"The day will come when the righteous warrior faces a battle she cannot win. She will greet that day as she has any other." —Asmira, holy avenger
The air hummed with the scissoring sound of uncounted blades that hovered in front of the invaders as though wielded by a phalanx of unseen hands.
The air hummed with the scissoring sound of uncounted blades that hovered in front of the invaders as though wielded by a phalanx of unseen hands.
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains." —Onean scout
"I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains." —Onean scout
So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it.
So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it.
"The treasures of the ancients belong in museums, not in the grubby hands of grave robbers."
"Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may takes its course."
Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.
Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.
"Best leave your tongue in its yap-hole, Mercadian scum, for your silvered words and golden bribes do not sparkle so brightly outside your city."
"Best leave your tongue in its yap-hole, Mercadian scum, for your silvered words and golden bribes do not sparkle so brightly outside your city."
"The constellations form a tapestry of light that traces my people's broken history. Day and night, I feel their glittering presence calling me to weave the pattern whole."
"Let my hope be your shield."
"We are all inextricably linked, souls woven in tapestry."
Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost. —Vec teaching
"Take the deadly grace and strength of the leonin, combined with a pteron mount capable of rending a foe in two and armed with notched steel. That is a skyhunter—and why Taj-Nar has never fallen." —Raksha Golden Cub
As tireless as her mount, a skyhunter's vigil is measured in days.
As tireless as her mount, a skyhunter's vigil is measured in days.
"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies." —Raksha Golden Cub
"We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies." —Raksha Golden Cub
The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes.
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
Appointed by the kha himself, members of the tribunal ensure all disputes are settled with the utmost fairness.
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.
"You have not died until I consent."
"You have not died until I consent."
Samite healers never mix their pungent elixir with sweetener or tea. The threat of a second dose is enough to get most warriors back on their feet.
"Why would I consider penance for my actions when I have so many subjects willing to do it for me?" —Lord Konda
"I do not consider myself a hero. I know only what the Vec teach: justice must always be served and corruption must always be opposed."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
On the wild steppes, history vanishes in the dust. Only the mythmakers remain to say what was, and is, and will be.
On the wild steppes, history vanishes in the dust. Only the mythmakers remain to say what was, and is, and will be.
Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers.
Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers.
"The White Shield is not the burnished metal you lash to your forearm but the conviction that burns in your chest." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
"My cause is simple: To stop you, at any cost, from ever seeing the inside of this keep."
Elder mystics take their vow of silence so seriously that they impose it on any who enter their presence.
Upon the frozen tundra stand the Kjeldoran Royal Guard, pikes raised, with the king's oath upon their lips.
Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory.
The strength of one. The courage of ten.
"May angels fly at your back. May your blade cleave the darkness." —War blessing of Serra
"Today there is feasting and peace across our land, but the war has not ended. Tuck away your bloodlust. You'll need it tomorrow." —Karrim, Samite healer
In war, as in society, position is everything.
For those who reach enlightenment, violence is an unnecessary distraction.
"Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo." —General Takeno
Once heard, the battle song of an angel becomes part of the listener forever.
"I thought of fate as an iron lattice, intricate but rigidly unchangeable. That was until some force bent fate's bars to spare my life." —Ilromov, traveling storyteller
He is the only one who sees the patterns in the overlapping maps and conflicting reports.
He is the only one who sees the patterns in the overlapping maps and conflicting reports.
"Illusion is a crutch for those with no grounding in reality." —Cho-Manno
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now!" —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"Mercadia's masks can no longer hide the truth. Our day has come at last."
"We called them 'armored lightning.'" —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"We called them 'armored lightning.'" —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.
Life is measured in inches. To a healer, every one of those inches is precious.
The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation.
"At the Reapportionment, Eagle begged to be human. The Ancestor granted half that prayer." —Nomad myth
Not all silences are easily broken.
"The Ancestor protects us in ways we can't begin to comprehend." —Mystic elder
"The Ancestor protects us in ways we can't begin to comprehend." —Mystic elder
The harmony of the glorious is a dirge to the wicked.
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
Every tear shed is a drop of immortality.
"The will of all, by my hand done."
"You have not died until I consent."
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
"The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world." —Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon"
To find its center is to find one's own.
The great leaves are resilient underfoot. Heavy steps do not bruise them, but release a sweet and spicy scent.
Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames.
Shamans of Kar-Sengir claim that their sun sets because it can no longer bear the gaze of those pain-carved cliffs.
"Touch no tree, break no branch, and speak only the question you wish answered." —Von Yomm, elder druid, to her initiates
Sometimes it's ostentatious to go unseen.
After centuries of labor, its creations outnumber those they were to mimic.
The musical sound of its turning triggers the tumblers of revelation.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what." —Memorial inscription
Hidden within the clicking, chittering swarm is a unique mind, still young, but growing more aware as time passes.
She wished for gold, but not for the strength to carry it.
Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers.
"You'd think that their big glowing eyes would be almost hypnotic to look at. In fact, it's the other way around—they are entranced by nearly everything they see." —Balecki, Spellwild druid
"Mushroom Queen sits among her spores, Enjoying life and avoiding chores." —Ibblian pixie ditty
Some mages forsake their scrolls and libraries to learn at the feet of ancient trees and sacred stones.
"An ancient, powerful force has overtaken the valley. I sympathize for its former inhabitants, but I rejoice for the land itself." —Olanti, Muraganda druid
"At harvest are seeds of next year sown."
The wisdom of the omenreaders is legendary. Creatures travel for miles through icy peril to seek their counsel.
Some nature mages unknowingly took advantage of the temporal energies still swirling on Dominaria. What they mistook for healing magic was in fact the manipulation of time.
"Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty."
"Beings of the rifts are not natural. No longer will these abominations tread upon the body of Gaea."
"Artifice has always stood upon nature's shoulders. Let us watch nature take a turn." —Freyalise
Battered and beaten by years of salt and claw, he never ceased to walk, and to seed. Only now, in this time of rebirth, do his seeds take root.
"I am irrelevant. The future I hold in my hands is everything."
His roots reach deep, nurtured not by soil and rain, but by millennia of experience.
"Life cannot be created and then abandoned. It must be nurtured and fed so that it may express its ripened might." —Freyalise
Despising his siblings as insults to his line, he finds and devours each in turn.
Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.
"Whip the Xs ! Pinch the Os! What we're building, no one knows!"
"Take care what you offer the ignus. Food, perhaps. Coins. But nothing flammable!" —Stovic, village eccentric
Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath.
"The seventh symbol, the Mark of Stone, stores the power of ancient Rath." —Tome of Elemental Mastery
"It takes but one spark to ignite a parched forest. Our hearts, I fear, are too dry for this new visitor." —Elek Longbeard
"Hrrngh! Someday I'm going to hurl this . . . er . . . roll this . . . hrrngh . . . nudge this boulder right down a cliff."
Doom casts its own flickering shadow.
"It's difficult to heal a rift after it begins wandering about on its own." —Teferi
Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb.
Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master.
Elementals flourished as Dominaria healed and new forms of life adapted to the land's reinfusion with mana.
"I have an eternity to know the souls who are bound here, to behold their every facet. But moments from now they will be gagged and masked, and they shall be known by none other."
"Hear us, Overmother. Let the strong thrive under your gelatinous hand, and let the weak writhe under your serrated heel." —Prayer of the devoted
The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness.
The Arturan conjurers took the strange, alien fossil and patterned their own twisted creations in its image.
In the stronghold's dungeons, the shadows hide in the vermin.
Death is only the beginning of the end.
The land can only hold so much poison before it begins to bite back.
"They are quick to offer advice, those whose mistakes doomed them to undeath. How can I not listen to the wisdom of failure?" —Ratadrabik of Urborg
He climbs a staircase of falling souls, fighting the continuous pull of the void.
"Your thoughts do not interest me nearly as much as the absence thereof." —Gorghul, augur of skulls
"Sometimes the grave does not wait for death before relishing its feast of flesh and bones." —Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
Her blades slashed across the noble's shadow. He scoffed, then fell over dead.
Within each empty skull, it seeks ways to preserve its own failing undeath.
"I swear the clouds were created just so the drakes would have a place to lurk." —Kasharri, skyknight
Vindr stormchasers believe that the same ancient forces that move the winds can also move mortal minds and hearts.
"A horrible sight, yes, but the sounds . . . Its twanging tendons and grinding gears are almost musical." —Brudiclad, Telchor engineer
"There is no shortcut to work done true and well. The Creators learned this to their sorrow, the first time they made the world." —Githri the Prisoner
It was created by the Iquati as a living memory—one that objects to being forgotten.
A well-made homunculus grooms the mind of its master, pruning the thoughts that lead to madness. Few loredelvers survive the study of the infinite without one.
Nobles don wings to reach the sky villas of their peers, exchanging them for more fashionable attire upon arrival.
"Each reality is but the dream of another, and each sleeper a god unknowing."
His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind.
Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed.
Those gifted with the sight have one eye in the present and the other in the future.
Wind time's watch, and watch time unwind.
"I have seen the future. It does not include you."
The Ramosian tradition is alive, but its namesake has long since been forgotten.
Lady Farisa's contempt of tawdry kitsch grew even more infamous after her death.
Doyo suspected the boggarts of brewing a plot against his crop, so he scythed away his grain to clear the sightlines.
Its skin remains in a flowing, liquid state that keeps its body coated with potent restorative lymph.
Having conquered the Bastion of Suns, the Ota took its light for their own.
It is a herald of the sun goddess, projected from the hallowed glass whenever her light passes through.
A fight put off forever is already won.
"There is no tactic I enjoy more than ambushing the ambushers."
Samite alchemists extracted aromatic traces of healing minerals from the residue of the receding salt dunes.
"The spirits of the mythic ones ever circle their beloved keep, forbidding entry to all who come with the heavy tread of hate."
The blessing adds both protection to the recipient and weightlessness to the stone.
"They who fall singing the battle hymn of Benalia go not unavenged." —Adom Capashen, Benalish commander
"The only perfect world is an empty world, with no one to sin or wage war." —Tarran, magus of the disk
"If it would end this exile, my life is yours."
His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him.
"Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse." —Lord Windgrace
"Run home, cur. I've already taken your master's head. Don't make me thrash you with it."
Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair.
"It triggers the hive's period of Ætheric fertility—a time when even feeding is a lower priority than reproduction." —Rukarumel, field journal
"At first we thought we were in some haunted wood. Then the branches twisted and scuttled toward us." —Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol
"I am the simplifier, the root that drags all artifice to earth." —Seal inscription
Crovax sensed that Mirri wasn't ready for the curse taking hold of her. Weeping in his heart, he fled.
His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him.
The elves of Llanowar don't trust in alchemy. They rely instead on pure herbs harvested from the forest's sacred heart.
"Life's greatest lessons don't come from focus or concentration. They come from breathing and simply noticing." —Seton, centaur druid
The earth's memory is long, its retribution brief.
"To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest." —Gamelen, Citanul elder
"My visions don't show me home. They show me where home is yet to be found."
"The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"I'll guard this fruit and its seedling until the land is healed. My life now belongs to Dominaria."
Only nature wreaks such lovely havoc.
He endures the pain of remembering Krosa as it once was and hopes that a future generation will have need of his memories.
"This sliver comes into the world a perfect predator. It's ready to hunt and devour its first meal within seconds of hatching." —Rukarumel, field journal
Mire slime courses through its veins in place of blood. No sooner does it bleed than it opens its mouth to replace the loss.
The ancient books slowly crumbled, their secrets turning to dust. But their every word sings within the magus's head.
"It was a sight of pain and awe—a twisted forest, migrating across the salt plain in search of richer soil." —Edahlis, greenseeker
In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy.
The cat warriors recognized this Jedit's face, but not his fierce loyalty to Efrava.
They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood.
In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic.
"All my spells smell like burnt hair lately." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
It's easier to move the village than to divert the wumpus.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
"Learn to burn!" —Institute of Arcane Studies motto
Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head.
His is the fury of the wildfire, the boiling blood of the volcano. He fights you not because you've wronged him, but because you're there.
Oddly, an unstable time stream makes wizards want to tinker with it even more.
"It's a testament to the forests' devastation that giant spiders now make their homes amid Dominaria's barren spires." —Aznaph, greenseeker
The magus still hears the roar of the crowds. They're gone, but the will to compete remains.
After millennia of advancement in goblin military theory, Toggo VI realized that almost everyone is afraid of fire.
"I hope to have such a death—lying in triumph upon the broken bodies of those who slew me." —Radha, Keldon warlord
"They infiltrated deep into the enemy camp under cover of darkness . . . and dirt." —Corus, viashino warrior
Covered with hard shell-like plates, these slivers burrow through solid rock to carve out new nests for their hives.
The familiar's fangs deliver the master's bite.
Tangling vines, fetid murk, paralyzing poisons, and crawling dead. The swamp is nature's trap waiting to be exploited by unnatural minds.
"Some say that time is cyclical and that history inevitably repeats. My will is my own. I won't bow to fate." —Volrath
Rath's new evincar eliminated the brutish moggs and took a new slave race, one more reminiscent of her own feline grace.
Tales of the outlaw's cruelty and might grew more embellished with each crime.
"We thought it was a fallen tree trunk. Then it ate Snod." —Sneed, goblin barkwright
"The scythe of time or my blade at your throat—the choice is yours." —Holux, stronghold racketeer
"Our lances' reach had been our saving grace in our fight against the hive. Now even that advantage is taken from us." —Adom Capashen, Benalish knight
"It offers but a taste of the power that the shadows have to offer. But even that is a heady wine indeed." —Ratadrabik of Urborg
A hero fails, a martyr falls. Time twists and destinies interchange.
All that remains of the Cabal are the echoes in its deepest vault. Yet those who hear the echoes feel a power undiminished by the dust of ages.
"Do the innocent pay for the crimes of the guilty? Of course they do. That's the fate of the weak." —Nicol Bolas
"Focus an enemy's mind on what's already gone, and it's easier to take away more." —Holux, stronghold racketeer
"As the fell soil's appetite grows, it gulps down passersby upon their first footfall." —Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
In spite of their hunger, they're slow eaters.
One croaked sermon spreads propaganda and plague.
Sphinxes drink from the mystic meres of Serra's realm, where their keen eyes watch reflections of what is and what is yet to come.
"Even a dragon is humble as a kitten if it thinks itself a slave."
Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic.
"You wish for me to cow your enemies? I can do better than that . . . ." —Teferi, second-level student
"Blasted fishtails! It's not enough that they meddle with my head, but they twist my body as well." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Belief matters more than truth. Every moment, belief in imaginary things alters lives while truth sits unnoticed and waits." —Hakim, Loreweaver
Gjornersen entertained his followers by taking bets on which would move first—the drowsing land wurm or the frozen goblins.
"To probe the wonders of the multiverse, to gaze upon worlds unspoiled by blade or spell . . . it's enough to make one weep for the possibilities denied."
Dream of nothing, and wake to a dream come true.
"With a twitch of its muscles, its timeline forks. Then, just as quickly, its two selves reintegrate. Causality, strangely, seems not to mind." —Rukarumel, field journal
Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own.
"Some trade in goods, some in secrets. My soul has walked the futures, and I offer the rare coin of possibility."
He's mastered the art of sleight of land.
"Two magi could trade spells all day and never crown a victor. The real battle is not one of power but of will. If your confidence breaks, so too shall you." —Venser
The rifted multiverse became a sea of conflicting realities, each peopled by possible versions of every living being.
Where the dead outnumbered the living, mimics scavenged faces from the fallen.
"Consider not what the mask hides, but what it can reveal."
"It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power." —Orim, Samite inquisitor
As the muscle cords of the creature twitched, Hanna saw an unsettling unanimity in the others' rippling flesh. She didn't know what it meant, but she urged Sisay to keep the ship at a safe distance.
"The mists coalesced into silent warriors. We charged them and broke through their lines, only to see them swirl and re-form behind us." —Golas Mahr, black knight
She shepherds mysteries and dust as others would a flock of sheep.
"Those who seek to upset the balance must be taxed for such ambitions." —Verithain, mesa high priest
"The sun rises, but the world still feels dark. Pray for the arrival of the malachim—they'll bring Dawn to the world and to our hearts." —Sister Betje, Miracles of the Saints
Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane."
"The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns." —Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra
He remembers a past of light and healing. But he lives the bitter present—parching salt, scouring wind, and the withering heat of the desert.
Dominaria erodes with each passing gust.
The rifts reach into infinite time streams, bringing the divergent products of alternate pasts into the present.
"I cannot teach you their brand of magic, but I can teach you how to defend against it." —Tavalus, priest of Korlis
"Its broad claw suggests a chitinous shield, but in fact it conceals glands that secrete a remarkably swift healing agent." —Rukarumel, field journal
The Tabernacle's disciples channel the emanations from Pendrell Vale, spreading its paradoxical demand to be both worshipped and left alone.
Its ethereal hand confers a lifetime of experience with combat and steel.
Crovax was destined for an angel's curse, but one warped timeline saw the noble redeemed.
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter.
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Except our own thoughts, there is nothing absolutely in our power." —Rene Descartes, Discourse on Method
"As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it." —Herman Melville, Moby Dick
Whenever the Llanowar elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
Nothing lives within it, yet there is life.
He holds the keys to a tombful of incarcerated secrets.
Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild.
"Returne from whence ye came..." —Edmund Spenser, The Faerie Queene
Some convictions are so strong that the world must break to accommodate them.
The foolish wish for that which they desire. The cunning wish for that which they require.
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive." —Elvish refugee
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun-and its darkness radiated across Otaria.
The admixture of bitterwort in the viral brew has produced most favorable results. —Phyrexian progress notes
The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air. —Scroll of Beginnings
A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.
The specimen seems to be broken.
Reach out and torch someone.
Experiments intended to create the perfect holiday emissary resulted in a substance harder than darksteel and a fraction as merry.
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
It is everywhere you've ever been.
"Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another." —Tocasia, journal entry
Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown.
Where scavengers nest in hollowed-out rib cages and chittering crawlers peer from empty eye sockets, few dare to trespass.
"They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match." —Teferi
Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power.
Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells.
Venser admired his handiwork and smiled. His first prototype had joined with the hive mind all too well, running with the brood and becoming a predator itself. This one, he thought, would be accepted into the hive but still obey his commands.
The past still lives within its pages, waiting for its time to come again.
It bends not light but mana, aligning its chaotic currents into the sharp angles necessary for the mystic's purposes.
A last wisp of paradise in a fallen world.
Every hour, at the turning of the glass, its owner had whispered to the locket, seeding it with secrets. This would be her legacy, her memory, if the rifts should take her.
Rath's evincars used hivestones to control the slivers, but the overlay put their power into unwitting hands. Now the stones make not masters, but slaves.
"This item is not from . . . now. It reflects a sky no longer ours and gleams with hope that does not exist." —Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
"A tome stored in its light is as crisp as the day it was written." —Ettovard, Tolarian archivist
Its buzzing is the sound of its inner mechanisms, ever winding down.
With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders.
Moments after a fickle rift dropped Stonebrow in the waste of his beloved Krosa, he took up his axe in rage-blind vengeance.
"I am the blood of the ur-dragon, coursing through all dragonkind."
In the blink of an eye, she strode from deep snow to dusty waste. From the crease of light behind her, a voice rang hollow: "Saffi, wait for me . . . ."
"When struck, its hide shimmers through sequences of color—a signaling language I am eager to unravel." —Rukarumel, field journal
A sojourn through time gave dark inspiration to one gifted young mind.
"Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him." —Mangara
"Since the last sliver arrived, even our mightiest relics splinter into shards as soon as we bring them against the hive." —Llanach, Skyshroud ranger
"This breed is on the cusp of evolution. It burns away the markings that connect it to a queen that no longer heeds its call. It seeks a new master. Perhaps I can give it one." —Freyalise
"They are here, and they are hungry. And what they do not eat, they burn. Yavimaya is lost. We must leave now for Skyshroud." —Edahlis, greenseeker
The parched earth still shielded those few souls with the heart to call it home.
With no jungle left to contain it, the "plague of daggers" spread across Dominaria.
Ground into the footprints of the ravaging herd were clumps of salt from Benalia, moss from Llanowar, dust from Hurloon, and ash from as far as Urborg.
"The sight of my thallids still thriving is a bittersweet welcome to this cold waste."
"The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world." —Uros, Pendelhaven elder
"Might of ancient wood and stone, Into spirit, flesh, and bone."
The constant shifting of Dominaria's shredded timeline played havoc with its atmosphere, combining savage electrical storms from ages past.
Centuries of temporal strife had stripped Dominaria of its natural defenses, but nature fought back with armies constructed of little more than grime and sunlight.
Each new generation of slivers evolves to assimilate the strengths of the prey upon which their progenitors fed.
"The spirits of old have not left us unguarded." —Uros, Pendelhaven elder
To treefolk's sense of time, ages pass as hours. They stood as witnesses to the apocalypse, the years of which they saw as one cacophonous, ultra-destructive moment.
Their calls unheeded by the withered forests, nature shamans channeled the life force of their brethren.
It died with the forest, yet both linger on in twisted form.
When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled.
The elder who carries the ancestral mantle of Jacques le Vert is tasked with his ancient mission: to protect the creatures of Pendelhaven.
"Life gives way to death, and death to new life. Nature feeds upon her own decay." —Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
"The forests have succumbed to ruin, but the spirit of Krosa remains alive and vital in these devouring spores." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee." —Llanach, Skyshroud ranger
Sometimes even humble forest creatures were gifted with mighty emanations from the past.
"What would Urza think, I wonder, if he could hear how the nature mages still snarl at his name, but venerate the work of his apprentice?" —Teferi, to Jhoira
"Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
Long ago, the solitary gnarr was a sign of good luck. Now they have become wild pack hunters, a sign of impending danger.
Time rifts bring tunneling beasts of old into the hard, dry earth of the present. Most die there, trapped, but the mightiest burst through the surface.
"A rumor passes among the snakes, whispered by the rushes, inspiring the seekers: the goddess Freyalise is alive in Skyshroud."
Its venom induces a fever that causes its victims to relive the attack in recurring, haunting visions.
"The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world." —Freyalise
"When a sliver of this breed enters the hive, the others claw each other in frenzied fits, thereby ensuring their rapid growth." —Rukarumel, field journal
These days, trackers must follow their quarry over years as well as miles.
"Sometimes the best plan is neither fighting nor running." —Freyalise
The bears wade into time rifts to feed. They do not fear the storms, and they are quick enough to snatch prey just as it blinks in or out of time.
"Obey!"
With a great roar, the land opened like a titan's yawn, with teeth of blackened rock and a lolling tongue of magma.
"Find your courage in a desperate moment, and you turn the tide of history. So sayeth the bey."
Radha was born in Skyshroud, but her temper is undeniably Keldon.
"That which would be a fatal mutation in any other species is merely a source of new powers. I am intrigued, yet too fearful to examine it more closely." —Rukarumel, field journal
The shaman of the tribe is responsible for keeping track of all its treasures, including angry pets and cursed lamps of fiery doom.
The barbarians of Pardia are long dead, but its mountains still smolder with rage.
The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses.
Arc mages aren't known for their patience.
Their flesh is as sodden as the fens in which they live, oozing to fill any wound and squishing to absorb any blow.
"Echoes of the Mirari's power yet linger." —Zyd, Kamahlite druid
"Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball." —Stumphobbler Thuj, Orcish captain
"I have a bad feeling about this."
"A gargoyle's meat can be carved with an ordinary cleaver, but for its petrous hide . . ." —Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, The Underworld Cookbook
They warn the army of danger as they squawk past in swift retreat.
"Everybody but me—CHARGE!"
Some time rifts didn't take away the people but just the ground they stood on.
Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse.
He takes out his fear of heights on anything above his head.
"A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air." —Adom Capashen, Benalish hero
With the evincars gone, flowstone became erratic and wild, a source of power for mages more desperate than wise.
To a fire elemental, fools and fuels are one and the same.
"They'd pour out of the warrens to make war (and to make room for the littering matrons)." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits." —Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer
As the time streams grew more and more unstable, Dominaria's creatures struggled to adapt. The intense pressures led to many dead ends but also to lethal new forms that appeared as suddenly as the ashen rains.
In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts.
"This can't be Jamuraa. We could not have failed her this badly . . . ."
Fervid shamans willingly submit to shockers in hopes of glimpsing the fortunes of the future.
The time rifts remind Yavimaya of the enemies of its past and provide fresh fuel for its fires.
"Lemurs? Is that all? Finally, something harmless . . ." —Norin the Wary
They draw upon the strength of their hive and of their victims.
"I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast."
At the epicenter of the Rathi overlay, the City of Traitors did not align with Dominaria. Many of its inhabitants were caught between the two worlds.
"Even swamps need sustenance. We will give it to them, and in turn, they will sustain us." —Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
Some mages tapped into the time rifts, forcing upon others alternate timelines in which unimaginable horrors befall them.
"What good is your blade without your breath?" —Greht, Gathan warlord
"Great losses often bring only a numb shock. To truly plunge a victim into misery, you must overwhelm him with many small sufferings." —Ratadrabik of Urborg
Most living things were weakened and stunted in the ruinous aftermath of the Phyrexian invasion, but a few grew more horrid than ever.
The living is all it eats.
"This soil knows well the taste of the dead. Give it the hunger for a living meal, and it can become a deadly ally." —Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours
A sliver shares everything with its hive—even its afflictions.
"The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies."
Though Dominaria's queenless slivers lack a single purpose, in some the instinct for self-sacrifice remains extremely strong.
They traverse the mana-starved wastes in search of richer lands.
"Behold! The image of the enemy and all that she has. Trust your envy, and take it."
The hymn's melody has persisted since Tourach's time, but the words changed to invoke the phobias of each listener.
Just a small touch of magic can harness the debilitating power of Urborg's poisonous winds.
"Edahlis, what is that thing? We should have stayed in Yavimaya . . . ." —Aznaph, greenseeker
"The surface of the land is blanched with salt, but the soil beneath is reddened with death—a fertile ground for necromancy." —Lim-Dûl the Necromancer
Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them.
A tomb-eye may remain shut for centuries. It opens when it sees a world as twisted and hollow as the wretch beneath its lid.
The ritual was normally performed only by horrors and pit spawn. Lesser mages had but one sanity to crack in the casting.
"Fascinating . . . These creatures display the paradox of tenacity and purposed self-destruction I have sought to breed into my thrulls." —Endrek Sahr, master breeder
The rulers of old Dominaria kept assassins on retainer. However, the true loyalty of these master killers was always to their peers. This elite brotherhood survived the fall of the old royal order.
An eyeblink later, all that remained of the tree-beast was the breeze of its momentum.
"It is not just our people I try to rescue. It is our culture, and our hope that we can return to greatness."
"Great books are meant to be read, then read again backwards or upside down!" —Ettovard, Tolarian archivist
As the temporal fractures spread and time itself slowly fell apart, visitors started to appear from across the past and future, and those native to the present began to disappear.
"Slivers are guided only by simple instinct. Advance the hive, and you will be welcomed. Impede the hive, and you will face unrelenting opposition." —Freyalise
To save this plane, he must forsake all others.
As fickle as lightning, as slippery as an eel.
"By thorn and by stone, we will fight to see the day when beauty returns to this world."
Drakelings fish with their tails, angling to snare succulent thoughts and memories on their psychic hooks.
The brutish mage's version of thinking.
"If it returns years hence, our knowledge of how to combat it will be that much greater." —Andorel, Tolarian sentinel
These slivers, trapped between worlds since the Rathi overlay, are among the last to claim direct lineage from the lost Sliver Queen.
"What wears down my people most, I think, is not the danger, but the endless screeching outside our camp." —Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol
Clairvoyants across Dominaria were driven mad by the overload from the widening time rifts, while other random folk gained the gift of future sight.
They evolved the ability to concentrate their neural activity into a single pulse, causing a disruptive but usually suicidal blast of psionic energy.
"Keep your pace steady through the haze, lest you step on the heels of your future self or trip the self a moment behind you." —Teferi
Once a vision of constancy in the sky, the moon had long been hidden from view by the haze that chokes the heavens. The very sight of it had become a sign that change was in the air.
Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead.
They study the deeds of their traitorous ancestors, hoping the stories may reveal a way back to the physical world.
What happens when it is the dream that wakes and the sleeper that fades into memory?
The rift remained open for days, sluicing ancient seawater. It closed only after the last great tentacle squirmed its way through.
They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly.
"Sages who take the time to verify their sources are rewarded for their diligence." —Jhoira, to Teferi
Fendros gasped as he watched the spell drip from the ends of his fingers. He moved his foot, afraid to disturb the spot where it lay slain.
Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake.
"Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension." —Jhoira, master artificer
"I have spied them, wandering and watching—but for what? I fear they watch for us." —Yonat of Amrou
His blade came down upon the neck of a goblin—but not the one he had charged. When Tivadar looked up, the world he had known was gone.
"They encircled our patrol with the stealth of snakes, corralling us like livestock." —Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol
"Those who endure in the face of suffering, those whose faith shines long in evil days, they shall see salvation." —Song of All, canto 904
Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly.
"They have long kept us under attack, but we do not lack for ammunition. The very bodies of our foes arm us against them." —Adom Capashen, Benalish hero
Like a great bellows it hisses, and its kin, both living and dead, are lifted to safety.
It is best to conquer dragons before they hatch. —Femeref adage
It was a moment in time, cast in stone—a moment whose time had come again.
"I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison."
Studying the journals of the necromage Nevinyrral leaves disciples gripped with the urge to exercise his draconian judgment.
After Efrava was destroyed, the cat warriors scattered across Dominaria. Those who followed Jedit's example were strong enough to survive the ravages of apocalypse.
A thousand years removed from her home, her news of war had lost its context, but not its relevance.
"Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith." —Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
A focal point for time rifts, Foriys contends simultaneously with foes both new and old.
It disappears each time with the hope that it will not return to the same desolation it left behind.
"Heed my words, traveler. Plagues, war, desolation . . . all mere hints of what is yet to come from Dominaria's vault of horrors."
Bind the mind rather than the wrist, and you stop the intent to harm before it starts.
"One arrow keenly fired might prevent more battlefield wounds than I could treat."
"In my dreams, I hear the voices of my future selves who have died in times yet to come. I use that knowledge to avoid those dark futures and continue my search for peace."
"We have a proud history of self-sacrifice. But it is easy, in these bleak times, to find one among us who is eager to die for any cause." —Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis
"Each place we see is as ruined and lifeless as the last. So here we stay, because this ruin is ours."
"My people swore to protect Benalia to the end. It is battered, but yet stands, as do we."
The paradise of Amrou Haven had become a field of cinders. Its people struggled to survive, hoping to see visions of its past in the strange storms that quickly passed.
The people of Amrou were scattered by war and driven into hiding. Scouts maintain the beacon fires that signal "return" and "home."
"This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks . . . Stand like Druids of eld." —Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "Evangeline"
The dark opening seemed to breathe the cold, damp air of the dead earth in a steady rhythm.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the rack was once his most feared creation.
"It offers you what you want, not what you need." —Braids, dementia summoner
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
When the Brotherhood of Gix dug out the cave of Koilos they found their master's severed hand. They enshrined it, hoping that one day it would point the way to Phyrexia.
"Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you."
"Isolation is not the answer." —Urza, to Teferi
"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry." —Mogg children's rhyme
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
"Peace must prevail, even if the wicked must die."
"The fire of justice burns like nothing else." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"You can build a perfect machine out of imperfect parts." —Urza
Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.
It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
"I need no army. I have Jamuraa."
"If they can't take the hail, they'd better stay home." —Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain
Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire." —Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Troll chant
"Fire is the universal language." —Jhoira, master artificer
"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side." —Telim'Tor
"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!" —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
It's bigger than it thinks.
"Us hungry, need food . . . . Lots of books . . . . Hmm . . . ."
The taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common kobold.
"Strength in numbers? Right." —Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
"Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal." —Reyhan, Samite alchemist
"Even the threat of power has power." —Jeska, warrior adept
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.
The weight of death is heavy but not immovable.
It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.
Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch.
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. —Suq'Ata saying
To keep the dead so others may live. —Shadow Guild maxim
"A thankless job, and a death sentence besides." —Eron the Relentless
The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
"They have knives for every soul." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"If I must die, I will encounter darkness as a bride, / And hug it in mine arms." —William Shakespeare, Measure for Measure
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge." —Crovax
Each Stormscape apprentice must hand-raise and train an owl before attaining the rank of master.
Occasionally, members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
It may wear your face, but its mind is its own.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"That phantom prow split the storm as lightning cast its long shadow on the battlefield below." —Mireille Gaetane, The Valeriad
Saffiyah clapped her hands and twenty flying men appeared at her side, each well trained in the art of combat.
"Catch good today. Start replacing crew tomorrow." —Faysal al-Mousa, fisher captain, log
"Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground." —Sidar Jabari
"The cracks widened, the shell crumbled, and Valor spread throughout the land." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Of twenty yeer of age he was, I gesse. Of his stature he was of evene lengthe. And wonderly delyvere, and of greete strengthe." —Geoffrey Chaucer, The Canterbury Tales
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves." —"Song to the Sun," Femeref song
Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations.
The slivers would survive, even at the expense of every other creature on Otaria.
The auratog enjoys eating its wards.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
2006 Vintage Championship Winner
"It's no Ornithopter, but then I'm no Urza." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit." —Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!" —Disa the Restless, journal entry
One Auroch may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.
"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?" —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"I have seen the faces of my dead friends among that grim band, and I can bear no more." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield.
"They shall kill those whom once they loved." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
"A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever." —Zur the Enchanter
"Give me wings to fly and speed to strike. In return, the glory I earn shall be yours." —Steinar Icefist, Balduvian Shaman
"There is no time for pain when this beast leaves its terrible sting." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"Although my official log will state there is no evidence pointing to the existence of the Mistfolk, my certainty is lessened by the cursed consistency of the expedition's eyewitness accounts." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Frankly, destruction is best left to professionals." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed.
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"What I want, I take." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Only a necromancer would create such a foul form of divination." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . .
The winged helms of the Guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war.
"All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Once great literature—now great litter." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Let them send their legions! I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords." —General Varchild
"Our land oppressed by silent Cold, We weary wretches, young and old, Pray that Springtime loose his hold." —The Dynasty of Winter Kings
"Our noble land, enslaved by Rime, Is it our fate to freeze through time? If this be true, oh wicked crime." —The Dynasty of Winter Kings
"Now caged in Winter's bitter chill, Our people cry, their voices shrill— Eternal cold breaks down their will." —The Dynasty of Winter Kings
"Who will stay the Tyrant's hand, As ice and woe both grip our land? The helpless feel his frozen brand." —The Dynasty of Winter Kings
"A realm once green now ruled by Frost, Where flesh and field both pay its cost. Those dearly loved, forever lost . . ." —The Dynasty of Winter Kings
The Phyrexian minds that constructed it did not live past its awakening.
Its plow wasn't designed for snow, but to carve a path through shrieking armies.
It took the Rimewind cultists days to realize they had successfully activated the creature—it just wasn't interested in moving.
"Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ." —Heidar, Rimewind master
The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power.
Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection.
"Don't be so quick to reclaim the thawing lands. They might have acquired a taste for freedom." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Out of sight, into mind.
When Freyalise spoke the World Spell, the tamanoa rose to bring a new morning to Terisiare.
Karplusan legend told of an orc so cruel that he burned his own followers in rage—yet so revered that they rose from their pyres to serve him.
To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both.
"That such delicate creatures could become so powerful in the embrace of winter is yet more proof that I am right." —Heidar, Rimewind master
"There are deep, deep places in this world that have long burned hot with little regard for the whitening of the earth's thin skin." —Sek'Kuar, Deathkeeper
Its belly produces a boiling-hot fluid it can spit as a weapon or spin slowly enough to freeze into a defensive web.
"If you call the wolves, ensure you have a worthy hunt, or you may become the hunted." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"It's odd to see the apes rip down trees to arm themselves in defense of their forests." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"Step lightly and we might be able to use it as a bridge." —Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey.
The sun-hot glow radiated from the druids, leaving scattered metal in steaming pools as it passed.
"Weep not for me. I will rise with the spring's new growth."
The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow.
"Our border lands fall under the grip of Heidar's second winter. Go forth and reclaim them for Yavimaya." —Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order
Its white webs glitter, mimicking the frost on the tree's branches.
The aurochs herd is content to graze—until the bull provides the dissenting urge to charge.
"I have been trapped in the lizard's lair for days. It seems to regard me as its child and will not let me leave." —Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry
Some creatures are bound to the cold by Rimewind magic. Others seek it out, adapted by two thousand years of the Ice. The Boreal, where Heidar's frigid sway is strongest, is home to both.
Those who used reindeer as beasts of burden knew to avoid the centaurs, who raged at the enslavement of their spirit-kin.
Slicking the ice with its heated underside, the thermopod skates at great speed to overtake its prey.
"This close to Rimewind Keep, no avalanche is nature's doing." —Ukoten, centaur chieftain
Deep beneath the ice, beneath the soil and the rock, Dominaria's fire still burned hot.
Blood calls to blood.
When a snowdrift shows you its eyes, it's already too late.
She turns ash into flame and burns enemies to ash.
"I lead my horde to the northwest. I won't return until the ice wizards fall and their fiendish contraptions are crushed!"
Ice exploded into steam in its wake, hissing like a thousand serpents hailing their blazing master.
"They're not easily trained. Fortunately, they already know how to kill." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
As the Thaw met Terisiare, mountains shed their icy skins, crushing homes and hopes alike.
Having charted their way up the difficult face, the two mountaineers had to contend with the mountain's decision to stand up.
Rimerunners set off avalanches to immobilize foes as well as to create more challenging slopes.
Clambering up and over the powdery slope, the goblin chanced upon a small furry thing. There they regarded each other: the goblin and his new pair of earmuffs.
The people of Terisiare had come to live on frozen fields as though on solid ground. Nothing reminded them of the difference more clearly than the rifts brought on by the Thaw.
"To a trained mind, the cold is but a momentary distraction."
"Let your heartbeat be the thunder in the valley. Let your swords be the lightning on the peaks." —Lothar Lovisason, Balduvian chieftain
The World Spell thawed their icy graves, promising rest in soft, quiet earth at last. But Heidar called them to duty for a twisted cause.
Kjeldorans who fled battle were exiled to the wastes. Those who strayed near Tresserhorn were pressed into service in Haakon's army.
"The White-Shielders think their code justifies their actions. In truth it only binds their hands."
"Tresserhorn is ours now. Dredge the lake and bring me all the bones you find. We'll build you a new army, the likes of which Terisiare has never seen." —Heidar, Rimewind master, to Haakon
The unfortunates so transformed hungered not for flesh, but for warmth.
Puppeteered by Heidar's icy hand, they were sacrificed to the Frost Marsh to raise Haakon's army.
The few surviving humans of Krov would have welcomed the return of winter and its sterilizing cold. They often peered northward, hoping that the snow's edge had reached their infested city-tomb.
"Make sure those wretches feed only upon the plagued. The blood of the healthy is reserved for me alone." —Garza Zol, plague queen
"There it was, clawing the ice as it chittered and clicked its teeth. We fled in horror before it unearthed its grisly meal." —Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry
"Starving an army that feeds on its enemies is a sound strategy." —Garza Zol, plague queen
"You pray to Freyalise, but she cannot hear your pleas. It is Tevesh Szat who will claim your soul."
"I hope it's true that every snowflake is unique, because I never want to see one like this again. Now clean up that body." —Thangbrand Gyrdsson, Kjeldoran patrol
Rimewind necromancers caught travelers in mystical blizzards then trapped their spirits in the mist of their final frozen breaths.
"Thick hides and layered armor won't help when I freeze you from the inside out." —Heidar, Rimewind master
"Concentration is key. Without it, a mage conjures nothing but a splitting headache." —Zur the Enchanter
With the spread of Rimewind's sorcerous winter, snow dwellers reclaimed their places atop the food chain.
"Find solace in the sun? Burning, blinding, laying secrets bare? No, solace is found under the blanket of cold."
"The Thaw brings flooding, disease, and death. We will do all in our power to bring frigid peace back to the world."
When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars.
"Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal." —Zur the Enchanter
Plague-induced dreams became real as they swirled above Krov, mingling with the magical residue of the World Spell.
"The umber stain of the Thaw will be bleached away. Once again the world will be sharp, white, perfect!"
"Guard, fetch me a mallet." —Heidar, Rimewind master
The Rimewind wizards strove to perpetuate a magical winter. Their unnatural snows birthed unnatural beasts.
"Nature? Fire? Bah! Both are chaotic and difficult to control. Ice is structured, latticed, light as a feather, massive as a glacier. In ice, there is power!" —Heidar, Rimewind master
Adarkar's blank wastes make the mind wander—and stray thoughts are quickly caught and devoured.
"Whether frozen or fertile, the land is our ally. It awaits the call to battle."
"Artifice sundered the world. It shall not again wreak such sorrow."
Terisiare has only two kinds of weather: cold and weird.
"Honor your steed and it will carry you to great deeds—and bring you home to tell of them."
Darien's call to Yavimaya would have fallen red to the snow had it not been for the agility of the aesthir.
"Heidar has forced the sun into hiding, but it has not forgotten us."
"The scouts claim the cold has malice, and a mind. I begin to believe them. Impassable drifts seem to appear before us at every turn." —Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry
The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again.
"Only in our vulnerability is there true power, and that power is life itself."
"The White Shield is not the burnished metal you lash to your forearm but the conviction that burns in your chest." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield
King Darien's breath crystallized and fell to the frozen battlefield, but its command carried true to all soldiers of New Argive.
"I listen to people. He sniffs the wind. And we both sense something big coming. Something very big."
The gargoyles were taken from the walls of flooded Kjeldoran cities and brought upland to guard the outposts of New Argive.
The Knights of Stromgald struck Darien's Roost from two sides. They would have caught Kjeldor in a pincer attack were it not for Darien's tacticians.
"With his dream of unification fulfilled, Darien became the last king of Kjeldor. Those who followed were known as the kings of New Argive." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"More than snow falls from the Boreal skies." —Arkin Egilsson, skycaptain
She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again.
Even miles away, if you put your ear to the sewer vents, you can hear the screams and the tempestuous laughter.
Prahv, where much work is done to make sure nothing is accomplished.
Built on the very ground where the Ten signed the Guildpact, the tower is a monument to the past and a reminder of who holds power in the present.
"The unnatural pressures of life in this city are best withstood by lifeforms that adapt with unnatural swiftness." —Momir Vig
Where wasted life cries out to be reborn.
Reluctant to meet face to face, the leaders of the ten guilds prefer to do official business through a go-between immune to bribes and threats.
Once tasted, the flavor of skullmead lingers in the throat, a secret brand of guilt for those who partake in forbidden pleasures.
For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost.
Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon.
The stones hark back to an age before civilization, when the living earth blessed all who trod its untamed wilds.
The vats are self-contained worlds, bubbling and churning with unnatural speed, boiling down eons of change into moments.
"Ooh, shiny! Let's pull off the chain and take her with us." —Ukl, Gruul raider, last words
The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change.
Most auramancers would have let the spikes hover just above the skin. Having the spikes rip through the skin from beneath was a touch added by Rakdos himself.
When it takes forever to learn all the rules, no time is left for breaking them.
"Look beyond, to the vascular awareness that all life is a map to greater knowledge." —Momir Vig, Biomancy, vol. I
Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies.
"It is technically an ooze, but its lifespan measures only seconds. In that short time, its appetite for magic is extraordinary." —Simic research notes
Fruits of magic, roots in science.
They're dying left and right.
Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel.
"This world may not know peace, but in my presence you will know quiet." —Augustin IV
"We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design." —Momir Vig
"Our thrulls dissolve from the inside out in a matter of days. Shoddy work, but they're a scream while they last." —Uzric, Rakdos guildmage
"Great minds bleed alike."
"Stay indoors, away from what seeps over the thresholds. This is the Demon's work, and only ill can come of it." —Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
The Rakdos make sure their victims remember their pain—or at least give up a little bit of their sanity in order to forget.
With one commanding word, the spell was put down and a fine collected for its casting.
"This creature has hyperevolved chameleonic abilities. It no longer mimics its surroundings, instead forcing them to take on its form." —Simic research notes
Sacrificial rites take place before an audience of cheering cultists, each begging to be the next on stage.
"The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves." —Yolov, Simic bioengineer
Few puppets are so willing.
"I must speak with Momir Vig about creating a water-spouting watchdog." —Mathvan, Prahv scrollwarden
The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse.
Lyzolda's pet rats eat better than the average citizen. In fact, they can usually be found eating the average citizen.
"Of course it will grow beyond control—it was designed to choose its own evolution." —Momir Vig
A thousand phobias sopped from the city and wrung from Rix Maadi as one.
"Though highly effective at reshaping flesh, these specially bred cytoplasts leave the subject reeking of omnibian mucus." —Simic research notes
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
Azorius military tactics, like their legal tactics, capitalize on delay and nullification.
With a steady diet of lawbreakers, Azorius griffins inevitably develop a resistance to the contraband magic that taints much of their prey.
In her single metasphere are bound the records of every Ætheric transaction since the time of Azor.
"Show them to Razia and then to the Azorius sky marshals. We could create a fine bidding war—enough to fund the final stages of Project Kraj." —Momir Vig
The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return.
"It takes more than swift feet and dark shadows to slip by me unnoticed."
"Mizzium may be impervious to fire, but obviously certain other things can . . . modify its form." —Ivos Koba, indrik handler
A hydra tender's problem isn't having enough defenses but enough pots.
"Infused with autochthon blood for size and hellion cells for speed, the ragworm is perfect for clearing the undergardens of both rats and vagrants." —Yolov, Simic bioengineer
Simic initiates begin their training as experimental subjects. Failures are flushed to the undersewers.
"Meat and eggs. We eat!" —Borborygmos
"Send a runner to Tin Street, and tell 'em the delivery has been . . . uh . . . held up." —Bonmod, caravan rear guard
His work determines who is remembered and who feeds the worms.
"An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances." —Simic research notes
"This undemanding vegetation takes root in a mote of dust but grows incredibly quickly." —Simic research notes
"It wags its tail when it's happy. It wags its tail when it's angry. Nope, there's no good time to be around a whiptail." —Rugar, Leaguehall Infirmary patient
"Finally, a good use for an Azorius courthouse." —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
Razia, archangel of war, demands total commitment.
He wages war wherever the wind carries him.
The taste of blood breaks down what little self-control the Rakdos possess.
Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws.
"If it breathes, it will burn." —Rakdos pyromancers' creed
"Rage, my servants. Our ancient power is renewed in blood." —Rakdos
A popular game among ogres is to see how many revolutions a head can make before it pops off.
"Start knockin' heads, boys, and don't stop 'til the ragamuffyn sings!"
Dressed to kill.
"A quick step beyond oblivion lies a place so full of thoughts that it leaves no room for your own." —Quyzl, chronarch prodigy
Despite its diminutive name, Gnat Alley is the longest street in Ravnica. Mile after twisting mile, it threads its way among the broader, safer thoroughfares like a parasite.
A flame-kin is always formidable, but feeding its fire with a sorcerous gift grants it the power to devastate armies.
"The forward flame-kin are popping. We have incoming!" —Svar, Boros signaler
"I like a little entertainment with my dinner." —Rakdos
"Some images are so powerful that one glance burns them into your mind forever. Come, let us gaze on nothingness." —Szadek
"Nature's exceptions remind us not to think in absolutes. Just as the orchid blossoms on blackened stone, so does the gift of mana occasionally manifest in the undead." —Bougrat, druid of the Cult of Yore
"The victim bears the marks of the 'Ktozok Impaler'. . . but he was executed years ago!" —Gorev Hadszak, Wojek investigator
A Rakdos party is a flop if anyone lives to talk about it.
"A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discrete to dissolve one's victim entirely." —Szadek
An ogre's poisonous stench is like fine Kashkaval cheese to the noses lowest to the ground.
They cut the stitches and give her sips of her brew. Then they sew her up again, and she's back to stirring.
"All ends in obliteration—love in hatred, life in death, and light in empty darkness."
"Please tell me I'm hallucinating. I'd rather be crazy than here." —Gorev Hadszak, Wojek investigator
"I call them 'Poke' and 'Prod.'" —Chagrach, Rakdos cursemage
"All dead move to the hollow rhythm of necromancy." —Savra
Guilds often exterminate those who saw or knew too much. Some vindictive souls retain their knowledge, using it in the afterlife to crush the guilded and the vile bargain that gives them power.
Like a vulture's scalp, the face of a drekavac is oily and hairless. The filth and disease of its carrion diet slip off its blood-slick skin.
They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line.
There came a rush, a sudden fire in the mind. Then the two saw only the sooty fog of madness, heard only the crackling of their last thoughts burning away.
To the Rakdos, the fun is in the shakedown. The loot is usually discarded.
The Rakdos are unique in designing torture equipment they can operate while "suffering" alongside their victims.
"I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first."
He unmakes the world in his own image.
Every culture has its unlucky numbers. In a city where you're either alone, in a crowd, or being stabbed in the back, two is the worst number of all.
"You will do the thinking for the both of us!"
While the soldier dreams, the eyes stand watch.
Its pulsating cry shatters bonds of iron, granite, and servitude.
"As my father taught, 'Training will raise your shield to the blow, but courage fills the gaps the shield leaves open.'"
"Life is fleeting, and so is death. Only the oath is eternal."
In death, as in life, they protect the Grand Arbiter from exposure to contrary points of view.
Properly honored dead gain the peace of the grave and freedom from the call of the Ghost Quarter.
Some sky steeds break from the thundering herd to ride free on the open winds.
The Haazda shield is broad, protecting both the free and the guilded.
"This aura threatens the sanctity of your soul. Wrenching it free won't be easy on either of us. If you're ready, we'll begin."
The magic of the Guildpact gives aegis to the spirits pressed into its service. Upon entering the afterlife, they find new focus and are charged with defending the Guildpact against those who would see it broken.
Confront her, and feel the hooves of her steed. Ignore her, and feel the sting of her arrow.
"No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now!" —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings." —Josuri
Her enemy's strength is her own.
Flesh can be tempered by spellcraft and forged ever stronger by the hammers of foes.
"Before the first stone was laid or the first elf-child born, the power of the nephilim was gathering. Let that power be spread by my hands."
"As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable." —Augustin IV
Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic.
Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own.
"This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!" —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
Unlike most churches, at Orzhova it's best to pray before you arrive.
Niv-Mizzet's genius and vanity reverberate throughout the mirrored halls of Nivix.
The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave.
"What is it? Um . . . what do you want it to be?" —Juzba, Izzet tinker
The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet.
"Steering apparatus?! What for? Rip it out, sharpen it, and lash it to the front!" —Ktank, Gruul plowmaster
Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul.
They are the voice of the wild, crying out with nature's fury and bringing forth its primeval might.
It departs through the streets' fissures with a sound like gravel pouring into a pond.
During their ascent to spirithood, patriarchs of Orzhova shed both flesh and emotion. This earthly slag is collected and formed into thrulls.
"We respect all lifeforms, but this one we respect from a distance." —Mandor, Selesnya ranger
One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead.
When it awoke, the worms of the earth hissed in a chorus of beckoning.
"Crush them!" —Borborygmos
When it awoke, it shattered the hillsides to make way for its passage.
"The blazekite is a simple concept, really—just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics." —Juzba, Izzet tinker
Tracing the horizon in a dance of wind and fire.
The Orzhov run a construction unit whose only business is rebuilding the wreckage left in the wake of wurms. When business is slow, they pay Golgari carnomancers to lure the wurms to the surface.
Quyzl was told by his mentor to "make more time" for his studies.
"More horrible than their empty forms are their noble eyes. I dare not strike." —Klattic, Boros legionnaire
"The sky isn't falling—it's being thrown at us!" —Otak, Tin Street shopkeep
"I ran the experiment through the brain of a schizophrenic lab-goblin. My burners' flames fell asleep while the beakers jumped about and shattered. Success!" —Myznar, Izzet psychomancer
They inflict pain to forget their own and break foes to feel whole.
"Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example." —Trigori, Azorius senator
The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance.
Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes?
"(Z–>)90° – (E–N²W)90°t = 1"
The eyes let flow with tears, then blood, then the very soul—the whole wrung inside out, dripping down into the blackened puddle of the past.
"Take the bridge, men! Victory! Victory is ou— Retreat! RETREAT!"
He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice.
To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame.
When it awoke, the mirrors of the world reflected only darkness.
Rerouting magic through a goblin's brain is the surest way to throw it wildly off course.
When it awoke, it shook the plane with the thunder of its craving.
"Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!" —Trivaz, Izzet mage
He chanted over a pot of boiling blood and honey. His brain buzzed like a nest of hornets, and his muscles rippled with the might of the bear.
The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach.
When it awoke, it spawned nameless thousands to herald its arrival.
"Who truly runs this city? Look to the sky on hallowed days, and see whose sigil is stamped clearly onto the heavens." —Vuliev of the Ghost Council
Orzhov faithful file past to have their minds purged of "impure" desires. There, the guiltwardens eliminate any thoughts of hope or self-sufficiency.
Izzet brains and Izzet boilers: contents under pressure.
"We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right." —Vuliev of the Ghost Council
Gruul shamans are bent on punishing the civilized. Any act more complex than rubbing sticks together or eating with utensils is met with the stinging burn of their magic.
"It's easy to see why those Gruul dirtbags follow him—the only orders he gives are 'Crush them!' and 'We eat!'" —Teysa
"I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void." —Razia
"You say that I am two-faced? Enough with the flattery. We have business to conduct."
Some use magic to spy through walls. Others use it to crush them.
Two times the size, four times the smell.
"No more wretched fate is there than to waste away. If you are slain, your ghost may at least avenge itself upon your killer. But what release is there for one slain by Time?" —Ilromov, traveling storyteller
In light he finds both gift and weapon.
Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm.
"Look to the old tomes, those bound in hides and written in yarberry ink. They hold the spells that can free us of the clutter of modern magecraft." —Dravash, dowsing shaman
Instinct blood-tinted his world until he could see only one thing clearly: his prey.
Where sovereignty and flesh converge.
The Gruul aren't satisfied with just smashing things. They continue smashing other things with the things they just smashed.
Petting the nodorog —Gruul expression meaning "making a really big mistake"
Loyal in battle, hearty in stew.
The snap of sinew. The crunch of bone. A cry for mercy. These are the music of the Gruul.
"Garb is for common folk. I prefer to wear insight and zeal, ambition and flame."
"Some gardeners sing to plants. I tell them stories—stories of how they once ruled the world, of the mortals who destroyed their kind, and of revenge." —Bougrat, druid of the Cult of Yore
From Tin Street to the Outcast Mansions, she walks unbidden and unbound, her graceful silence never shaken by the riot of city life around her.
"The other guilds think they're untouchable. It's time we brought them back down to earth." —Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage
"Rauck-Chauv's like a holiday! Only it isn't on the calendars, and instead of dancing you knock people flat, and instead of giving gifts you break stuff."
Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end.
"You can't have so many people living so close together, all practicing so much magic, and not expect some feedback."
He's an oxymoron.
Where storm and spellcraft converge.
Zap on. Zap off.
At mealtimes, the Gruul customarily omit such niceties as using forks or killing the entrée.
"The first blow is the most important. It often negates the need for a second." —Agrus Kos
It tracks its victims by the scent of their breath, preferring to dine on those who recently ate well.
"An entire order of mages who draw their power from Ravnica's smog? Yet another indicator of our world's decay." —Dravash, dowsing shaman
"Our fealty to guilds dooms us. The old gods shall resurface. Our skins will wave upon the guild-masts over emptied streets, and our bones will clatter in the wind." —Ilromov, traveling storyteller
"The Golgari raise the bodies of their dead to serve. We raise the spirits of our dead to lead."
"We mourn our dead. We shroud our dead. We bury our dead. Too often, it seems, we must kill our dead again." —Grazda, veteran armorer
Some claim it's a failed Simic experiment, others say a Golgari creation. Both guilds deny all responsibility, while secretly studying its strange virulence.
"Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies." —Savra
Orzhov churches don't pass the plate for collection. They charge for admission.
Where treachery and oblivion converge.
All that remains when the fog finishes are neat piles of polished bones, like acid-etched glass. Orzhov servants collect them to make altar chimes.
Orzhov prisoners are steeped in a blackened brew that robs their souls of strength. Patriarchs drink that brew to extend their own lives.
The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass.
"Piece the tragic notes together and is it not a melody?" —Teysa
Cremation of the dead is not a religious ritual in Ravnica. It's a business designed to keep the Golgari from growing in numbers.
"Looking out the great windows of Vitu-Ghazi at the foundry stacks belching their smoke to the sky, I wonder when the sky will take its vengeance." —Heruj, Selesnya initiate
"I fear to keep an open mind, for there are those who would use it as a door to my soul." —Voka Schlak, Mauzam Asylum inmate, diary
"Fair? At what point in our negotiations did you convince yourself my goal was to be fair?"
"But then . . . oh, but . . . which means . . . which would lead to . . . exactly!"
"Drakes? Bah! Things that breathe don't interest me. It breathes fire, you say? Well, that's a different story!" —Zataz, Izzet clockwork artificer
The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth.
The "Days of Darkness" mark the stratozeppelids' annual migration, when for five days they blot out the sun and trumpet their passing.
Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work.
Would you trade the world for such a pet?
"Ever try to count hyperactive schoolchildren while someone shouts random numbers in your ear? It's like that." —Geetra, frustrated mage
"Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be." —Agosto, Azorius imperator
A skilled Izzet chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next.
Where renown and solitude converge.
"In secrecy is strength. None can oppose one who cannot be found." —Szadek
So wondrous to behold, so delicate and finely crafted—and yet, such a pleasure to smash.
The chant was interrupted, the components cooked, and Zok worried that it was his brain he smelled smoking.
Lurking below the current, she thirsts until others come to drink.
"Surprise is a useless, untidy emotion—the plaything of goblins and fools."
Its fickle form holds hints of a thousand former identities.
"Defense is as much a part of war as offense, the shield as important a tool as the sword." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"The call came, spell-borne through mortar and stone to the ear of every soldier. The call came, and the advantage was ours." —Lodusz, captain of the watch
"When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd." —Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor
His assistants calculate the amount of the tribute. He measures out the punishment for delinquency.
"Of course I plan on going up. Kang here is the most trusted 'fin on the squad. Afraid? Me? No, I'm just . . . waiting for the right wind conditions."
"Steel rusts. Arrows break. But righteousness is always strong, always sharp."
Orzhov mage-sculptors bring their stone to life before they carve it. The shrieking begins as soon as the mouths are formed.
Shadow lances are crafted from harvested souls. The more wicked the sinner, the keener the blade.
As stoic as the marble halls, as unblinking as the stars upon their shields.
Rakdos cultists hanged her for sport in the township square. Her ghost now stands vigil at what has become known as the Tree of Weeping.
"Your signet is no symbol of power. It marks only your need for numbers to aid you. What do you do, guild-rat, now that you face my blade alone?"
Where strength and humility converge.
Moon Market merchants sell a bottled scent to cutpurses and other criminals. Those doused in the liquid become "griffin bait."
The soldier moved with fluid poise, his awareness extending far beyond five senses.
"I watched its blade swing through me, but I was hollow, empty. I saw its face contort in rage but could not hear it snarl." —Klattic, Boros legionnaire
"I thought of fate as an iron lattice, intricate but rigidly unchangeable. That was until some force bent fate's bars to spare my life." —Ilromov, traveling storyteller
" . . . and you must also apply for an application license, file documents 136(iv) and 22-C and -D in triplicate, pay all requisite fees, request a . . ."
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become part of the forest after death.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become part of the forest after death.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become part of the forest after death.
Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic.
The blazekite is a simple concept, really - just a vehicular application of dragscoop ionics and electropropulsion magnetronics. —Juzba, Izzet tinker
"We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right." —Vuliev of the Ghost Council
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
There was no trace / Of aught on that illumined face... — Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Phantom"
"The tyrannous and bloody deed is done, The most arch deed of piteous massacre That ever yet this land was guilty of." —William Shakespeare, Richard III
Meddling mages chant so loudly that no one can get a spell in edgewise.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
"She is a theme of honor and reknown, ...Whose present courage may beat down our foes." —William Shakespeare, Troilus and Cressida
It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite size.
The hum of the universe is never off-key. —Mystic elder
The pits have their own form of mercy.
It teaches you to play dead.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
Don't laugh. It works. —Yavimaya ranger
They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out. —Ailheen, Speaker of the Council
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave.
Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice.
In a space where there is no room, in a structure that was never built, meets the guild that doesn't exist.
Voyager staffs are sought by those hoping to find an escape from the sprawling glut of Ravnica.
The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact.
The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree.
The mask confers both the prowess of a falcon and its loyalty.
To bear the shield of the pariah is the highest honor a Boros can receive—and the last.
Nullstone absorbs and dampens most forms of magical energy, as well as light, sound, and heat.
Constructed of leather and irony.
One man's trash is another man's troller.
Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life.
Izzet artificers have learned to steer their beautiful constructs clear of Boros warhammers—and the opera house.
An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed.
The spoiled, gluttonous halls of the Orzhov teem with gaudy, needless wealth. Even their security measures are made for beauty first, efficiency second.
It wants to remain a mystery, banishing the curious in favor of less inquisitive company.
"Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride." —Agrus Kos
"Your ignorance is my bliss." —Szadek
In the undercity, forgetfulness is often encouraged at the point of a blade.
Even the dead give way to the mineral gaze of the gorgon.
Swift, strong, and selfless, the centaurs are the shields of the Conclave.
"Look at this goblin, once wild, untamed, and full of idiocy. The Boros have given him the skill of a soldier and focused his heart with a single cause." —Razia
"Nothing could be more natural than roots sucking nourishment from the dead." —Savra
"Its darkened sap penetrates natural fibers and spreads its own genes. Emulation experiments are underway." —Simic research notes
Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock.
"When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
In Otiev's mind, he ruled in favor of the accused. But in his courtroom he was only a spectator, watching his hand deliver the sign of death.
"Hear that? Those notes mean we've arrived at Sunhome! Let our allies' hearts soar and our enemies' hearts shatter at the sound!" —Klattic, Boros legionnaire
"Law soothed his savage heart. Where fury once burned, the enduring flame of order now shines." —Razia
"I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead." —Razia
"What's their strike range, you ask? Let's put it this way: sagittars aim their bows using maps." —Otak, Tin Street shopkeep
"The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells."
Beneath the beauty of light and seed is the might of Vitu-Ghazi.
"When I meditate I see the world as it should be. All that does not fit, I remove." —Alovnek, Boros guildmage
"Nature's most raw beauty is the circle: perfect in its continuance, with no break between death and life."
Only the chosen ones are spared.
Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths.
Yuri took up the ragged Boros banner, and his brethren, inspired by the act, followed him back into the fight.
"All matter, animate or not, rots when exposed to time. We merely speed up the process." —Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer
"Gold can be reearned, goods restored. The moroii steal youth, more precious than either, and once gone, it's gone forever." —Berta Suszat, civic healer
"Look at this creature, so like the Conclave it serves. Cut one head and it grows two. Damage it and it flourishes." —Veszka, Selesnya evangel
"Touched by moroii" —Undercity slang meaning "to grow old"
"I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it."
Though less well-known than its army of soldiers, the Boros Legion's mage-priests are as respected by the innocent as they are hated by the ghosts of the guilty.
It stands sentinel to the great City-Tree, home of the Selesnya Conclave.
Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity.
The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them.
"I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir." —Szadek
The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers.
Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses.
"The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'" —Veszka, Selesnya evangel
"Fear not. Your life will not go unlived."
Other guilds demand tolls from those who travel their territories, but not House Dimir. It takes its share secretly, one coin purse at a time.
"The soil here is rich with the rotting dead, and the sun's fingers barely penetrate the dark canopy. Plant our brethren here. This shall be our sanctuary." —Savra
Dimir rank and file never see nor hear their guildmaster. All orders are given through mysterious necrosages who appear from the shadows, tersely toss out a command, and then melt into the darkness.
"It is fitting that we meet in the first hour of light, for we are called by the Conclave to pierce a threat of darkness."
"We are many, yet one. We are separate in body, yet speak with a single voice. Join us in our chorus."
"Let the pyres of the unbelievers light our way." —Razia
When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in.
The Golgari support a vast army because death never ends its soldiers' service.
The trainer awoke to begin the journey from the wurm's tail to its head. The sun was setting when she arrived.
Lieutenant Kos has never met a group of recruits he could not inspire or a mob he could not quell.
It grows to hate you.
A friendly ursapine means a constant supply of sharp spears. An unfriendly one means a constant supply of small holes.
"Forget yourself. Forget your city. Forget your homes, your families, the debts and obligations that hold you to this world."
Centuries of wind, rain, and roots compressed into an instant of destruction: such is the power of Selesnya.
Her touch brings to bare stone what water and sun bring to rich soil.
The Rubblefield was once among the wealthiest districts in Ravnica. All it took was a single wurm to reduce it to ruins.
It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge.
From the seeds of faith, great forests grow.
The shadow that fell over the grove was silent yet horribly alive, roiling with millions of tiny minions dedicated to the process of rot.
"The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language." —Savra
For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear.
"This is the place? This map has got to be wrong . . . ." —Svania Trul, wayfinder novice, last words
"Let the song of Selesnya be heard above the rhythm of our thundering hordes!"
The shepherds work in secret, seeking out abominations against nature and returning them to earth and dust.
Her ivy locks are a remnant of the wooded wilds now lost to Ravnica forever.
Man's best fungus.
The glittering strands of its complex web catch everything from a buzzing gnat to a passing bloatdrake.
Saprolings add the three and the four to the "one-two punch."
"How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail."
The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same.
Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari.
"I awoke to the face of beauty, my body fully healed. In that moment I knew my destiny was the Conclave's to shape." —Rogad, Selesnya initiate
He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city.
"These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square."
So-called "old wood" is rare in deforested Ravnica. Statues carved from it are said to house the last of the ancient nature spirits.
Ravnica is a seamless urban tapestry, each city bleeding into the next. In abandoned corners, however, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned.
Long ago, birds of paradise littered the skies. Thanks to the city's sprawl, most now exist as pets of society's elite.
"Your brother's crimes are your crimes. You stood by and lent support, so you too must face judgment."
"In a town shaped by the subtle machinations and political intrigue of its guilds, it's reassuring to see a goblin waving his torch and screaming about some nonsense or other." —Agrus Kos
Citizens of Ravnica stick to the main streets. Shortcuts may look tempting, but down each alley, dozens of hungry hands await, and screams do not carry into the busy market throng.
"When the bony terminus gets too large, it's shed from the tail in coinciding periods of heightened aggression and hunger." —Simic research notes
Market hucksters sell molochs for use as watchdogs. Of course, that's all molochs do. Sit around . . . and watch.
"If only my poxes were as infectious as their zealotry." —Savra
There is no place in Ravnica for stagnation, no room for lands unfilled and untilled.
Pajik was amazed and pleased at his newfound powers. His pet cat Rivin was slightly less enthusiastic.
Ravnica's laws protect not its citizens but its industry. Aging equipment is destroyed rather than restored, to bring more money into the factories' coffers.
"Killing is easy. Just wrap your hand around the haft, and wrap your enemy around the blade."
Natural disasters in Ravnica are largely nullified by the Izzet. Unnatural disasters, on the other hand, happen all of the time.
It has eight lives' worth of hunger to satisfy.
Three hundred years of practice thwarted by an instant of mischief.
There's plenty to talk about in the marketplaces of Ravnica, be it the latest feud between guilds or the terrible weather.
Thick of muscle, stout of heart, and possessing a burning love of justice and the battlefield, the Ordruun minotaurs are the foundation of the Boros Legion.
Some take after their father, Stone, some after their mother, Fire.
"My criticism of the Izzet is that their impulse for learning seems too much like impulse and too little like learning." —Trigori, Azorius senator
"The Rakdos know little of technology, but they definitely know how to push buttons." —Trivaz, Izzet mage
All it knows is the difference between friend and food.
"The Boros say they want to bring order to Ravnica. Funny then, how well they use chaos." —Trigori, Azorius senator
The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
"Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit." —Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern
Few have seen the inner workings of Ravnica's furnaces, but neighboring districts catch brief glimpses in the horrors that escape the flames.
Chimney sweeps, explorers of abandoned buildings, spire climbers . . . goblin spelunkers have found countless niches within Ravnica's metropolis.
The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do.
"A single item acting as lantern and lance? Now that's military efficiency." —Brev Grezar, Boros lieutenant
The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry.
"Though used as a piercing weapon, the tusk is more akin to a stinger, spreading pain instantly throughout the body of its victim. This specimen deserves further study." —Simic research notes
There is no shelter from this storm, its rain of fists, or the thunderous cackles of bloodlust.
Nothing stops industry in Ravnica—certainly not the safety of its workers.
"Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty." —Razia
Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable.
Vendors hung cords heavy with roots and laid out boxes of salted meat, unaware of the fiery disaster swiftly approaching.
"Riftcutters are suicidal anarchists, waving those lightning axes around so much that the walls are as likely to fall as their foes." —Heruj, Selesnya initiate
Each soul he devours adds its hunger to his own.
Many minds, a single madness.
After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form.
"Officially, there's nothing under that bridge to hunt . . . Unofficially, my torchers are too terrified to go there after nightfall." —Agrus Kos
"Once the brew gets the brains nice and pickled, they're a lot easier to pick through."
"Why limit yourself to mortal law when you can outlive those who enforce it?" —Czaric, Orzhov prelate
They hardly have form, dripping through pipe and grate with the slip and stench of flowing sewage.
"Don't worry. I know the drill."
No heartbeat to hear, no greed to bribe, no fear of death.
"My favorite meal is angel's flesh, slain in agony and iced with black vinegar." —Aszala of House Dimir
Mortipede pheromones choke the streets with sickly sweetness, luring the rash and unwary into its waiting jaws.
At every fifth full moon, the Moon Market convenes to peddle Ravnica's most forbidden wares.
When he reaches for his key ring, you should be running for the exit.
"Allow me a moment to catch your breath."
Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice.
"Lost man, dead man, knocking on the door. Cankerman, soreman, knock no more." —Ravnican children's rhyme
When killing five just isn't enough.
Sometimes you go to hell, and sometimes hell comes to you.
When the dead are laid to rest in Ravnica, it's usually just a nap.
"We thought we found the victim's clothes lumped in the street. As it turned out, it was the victim, insides sucked out—just a sack of skin and robes." —Agrus Kos
Greatness, at any cost.
There's an experience worse than blindness—it's the certainty that your vision is perfect and the horror that there's no world around you to see.
They chase tirelessly after the bone-carts that speed along the streets of the Plague Quarter.
A spiteful force exists on Ravnica that binds these ghosts to the land of the living but forbids them to touch it.
"Be careful what information you ask them to find, for it will likely be the subject of tale time at the alehouse." —Sirislav, Dimir spy
Their denial reaches far into your future.
"I crept up on him, quiet as a guttermouse. And then suddenly I found myself facedown in a latrine pit behind Tin Street Market." —Sirislav, Dimir spy
"This feels a little more like home."
Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do."
"Drakes embody the worst of Ravnica: great potential, twisted by selfishness and greed." —Razia
Their natural curiosity, combined with a knack for trespassing, makes sprites excellent spies.
The Simic created the cells to preserve their experiments. The Azorius put the cells to use on the guilty.
"The trick isn't setting up the bad trade. It's making each side think it got the better deal."
The irritable drakes are solitary nesters. Even brooding females barely contain the urge to attack their own young.
"Well, at least all of that arm-waving and arcane babbling you did was impressive."
Most Ravnicans lead lives of desperate survival. Those who thrive are malleable enough to change with the ever-shifting politics of the guilds.
When House Dimir's secrets are in danger of exposure, the guild takes drastic measures to cover its tracks.
True enlightenment comes not with a new thought, but with understanding of all the old ones.
Tharashk the Bold suddenly wasn't himself. Or anyone else, for that matter.
Lies are sold as often as truths—and used just as effectively.
"Earth to æther, window to wonder, stillness to the sky." —Glazing incantation
Each tooth carries enough bacteria to kill a person in a day or two. But then, gharials do have 138 teeth.
Æther can turn a footprint into a blueprint.
"A system to direct the flow of Ravnica's entire water supply? Thinking a bit small, aren't we?" —Trivaz, Izzet mage
The view from above is an inspiration to the newly winged.
The tendrils of sorcery find easy purchase on the soft underbelly of dreams.
"Falconry? A fine sport I suppose, if you're attracted to the frailty of birds." —Trivaz, Izzet mage
Simic mages create redundant backups of their experiments to reduce the consequences of catastrophe.
The words came to the sorcerer's lips but refused to budge any further.
"Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?"
"About the sphinx, I have mixed feelings. Their wisdom I crave, but their secrecy I can't tolerate." —Szadek
It is the call to arms, the call to fury, the call to blood.
"A few arrows aren't enough to pierce your faith, soldier. You'll be back on the battlefield by sun's dawn."
An ageless order, the votaries receive the gift of rejuvenation from the temple gardens they guard.
"Give me a sword and I'll kill a few enemies. But give me a hammer and a fiery forge, and I'll turn the tide of battle."
"Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them." —Miotri, auratouched mage
The most feared of Azorius punishments is to be freed—sent back out into the world, stripped of all magical defenses.
"If you ask me, those root-lovers value mindless dogma over progress." —Trivaz, Izzet mage
They were master fishers, but their seas are now the streets and their catch, the goblins that run pell-mell from the screeching in the sky.
It drifts through the streets as a breeze of collective sighs, wilting the bustle with dreams and heavy eyelids.
The town stands on his ancestors' former burial grounds. Even with the graves long gone, he continues his determined vigil.
"The Wojek defend the laws. We defend the people."
The gatekeepers are so fastidious that even the winds must wait to pass.
The Legion looks after its own.
The magic of the Boros patrols the streets even when their soldiers do not.
The lammasu ruled the velds before the city grew. Now they roam Ravnica's skies, but their ancient enemies have not forgotten them.
"Ravnica, like a hedge, must be pruned, leaving only leaves of verdant uniformity." —Niszka, Selesnya evangel
"Ma said we should offer up blini-cakes and salt to the good ones, but I get that chill up my spine and just shut the door." —Otak, Tin Street shopkeep
"Ditri, I leave this checkpoint in your capable teeth." —Kitov, nightguard patrol
Everyone knows that violence at the Festival brings the worst of luck, so for at least one day a year arms are laid down in favor of brimming goblets.
"I have seen much from the back of my dromad, most of it terribly wrong. The more I see, the more I am convinced of the rightness of my path." —Heruj, Selesnya initiate
Justice flies swiftly on angry wings.
Into the light the good are welcomed, and with the light the evil are banished.
The Orzhov started using hawks as messengers in order to bypass the many toll roads and bridges that dot Ravnica. Soon the service became one of their most profitable businesses.
Equenauts are the seeds of the Conclave, scattered on the four winds, searching for new places to take root.
"The guilds each believe its way is right, but their ways only bring blood to Ravnica's streets and tears to Ravnica's families."
"Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war." —Dravin, Gruul deserter
Although the door is flimsy and the lock pathetically small, Josuri's family never fears the night outside.
"Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light."
2005 Vintage Championship Winner
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
It still stares accusingly at Memnarch, though millennia have passed since he separated the eye from its body.
As a beaver's teeth grow unchecked without regular use, so does the golem's armor grow without regular battles.
The bloom contains no seeds. It's meant only to nourish the forest's inhabitants.
"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again." —Karn, silver golem
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die. —Onean children's rhyme
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work." —Urza, in his apprenticeship
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
"The paradox of jade statues is that their victims never really expect attack, but they are never completely surprised either." —Kabel, Tolarian archivist
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, the Pretender
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
"True power is controlling not only the hearts of your subjects, but their minds as well."
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
It lights up the sky, beckoning enemies only to repel them.
A blade that has never known sheath, a hilt that has never known hand.
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more."
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
Though it was built as an instrument of labor, it wasn't long before it became an instrument of war.
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
"A good lamp will light your way. A good ring will clear it." —Nervan, royal jeweler
It lives mainly on fruit, leaves, and the occasional nose.
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
Krosa's distorted groves bear strange fruit.
She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it.
"Graceful? Yes. Beautiful? Absolutely. Harmless? Definitely not." —Fyndhorn elder
The fruit of this fabled tree takes on the flavor of whatever food you love most.
Gravity is truly what you make of it.
The vines and branches of the jungle canopy are all the wings it needs.
Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
The only thing that flies over the Krosan Forest is the wind.
"Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
The wurms become so big, a single scale can be used as a roof for a human dwelling.
If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.
The bears had been isolated on an island for hundreds of years, until the island sank and the bears didn't.
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
"My brother, it may now be time to ring the bell and put out the call for aid."
The song of the forest is in perfect harmony. If a single note is out of place, the elves will find its source.
The rain is driven like nails.
"Well, it also makes a very nice flower pot. . . ." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
The dying ask for water because they know it contains life.
As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army.
"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
No two see the same Maro.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
After years of training, the druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a king cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend. —Suq'Ata wisdom
"There was a crack of branches, a rustle of leaves, then a tremendous roar. Our party had no chance as death descended from above." —Taseen, elvish bard
Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
"Soldiers speak of defending the soil, but they care only for their nations. I care nothing for their nations and everything for the soil."
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death." —Mary Shelley, Frankenstein
Watching the spider's web —Llanowar expression meaning "focusing on the wrong thing"
The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.
"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Elvish hymn
Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves.
Helplessly drawn in, the bard's enemies quickly find there's more than song to be found.
"Earth's increase, foison plenty, Barns and garners never empty: Vines with clust'ring bunches growing; Plants with goodly burden bowing." —William Shakespeare, The Tempest
Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"I have seen life's purpose, and now it is my own." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
If you're smaller than the anaconda, it considers you food. If you're larger than the anaconda, it considers you a lot of food.
Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a big appetite.
Keldon soldiers learn to move faster than the whip.
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.
"Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
Its hooves strike lightning and the thunder follows quickly after.
Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.
"Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them." —Dravus, lava mage
"Once I saw a goblin shouting at a thunderstorm. He lost the argument pretty quickly." —Wandering mage
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
"The purest ore is produced from the hottest furnace, and the brightest thunder-bolt is elicited from the darkest storm." —Charles Colton
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.
Every litter of kavu yields one cub that refuses to hunt with the pack.
"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
Sometimes everyone decides to go for help at the same time.
"So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game." —General Khurzog
Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two.
Nothing makes a mogg madder than having to wake up.
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
"Catch!"
It puts the "fur" in "fury."
Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
The only thing worse than a goblin is a goblin that knows his way around.
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar.
Like a loaded cannon—point and shoot.
They patched the holes, loaded their sharpest rocks, spanked their children one last time, and lurched off into the sunset.
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
It may look like soil, but its nature is malice.
Flowstone troops are notoriously difficult to keep in formation.
"What's better than smashing things with a rock? A rock that gets up and smashes things for you." —Toggo, goblin weaponsmith
Dry grass is tinder before the spark.
"I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black." —Oracle en-Vec
The barbarians call it "touching the soul of the dragon."
"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits." —Dwarven forging song
What burns the land, boils the seas.
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
Fire never dies alone.
"From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do." —Balduvian tavern song
Those who will not follow are doomed to lead.
Just try taking this bull by the horns.
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it." —Mystic elder
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
"Rats, rats, rats! Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life." —Bram Stoker, Dracula
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
You are who you eat.
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
They are incubated by swamp gases and cut their teeth on zombie flesh. Serpent warriors are not to be trifled with.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
Nothing is sacred to the rats. Everything is simply another meal.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy." —Keld Triumphant
No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
A drop of humanity for a sea of power.
"Of all the tyrannies on humane kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind." —John Dryden, "The Hind and the Panther"
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace. —Nantuko teaching
It is the thing that goes bump in the night.
"The beauty of mental attacks is that your victims never remember them." —Volrath
"You can run from your pain, but you will tire before it does." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"
On darkness feeding, in nightmares breeding.
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
"Tonight, madam, it's your money and your life."
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets.
Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him.
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.
The pain of a lifetime—every scrape, illness, and bruise—condensed into a single moment.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
"Don't fear the darkness. Fear what it hides." —Remin, venerable monk
"Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead." —Cabal Patriarch
"If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it." —Kaervek
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
The best ideas often come from the worst minds.
Your entire life passes before its eyes.
"Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits—that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Pit and the Pendulum"
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death." —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
"No mockeries now for them; no prayers nor bells, / Nor any voice of mourning save the choirs,— / The shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells." —Wilfred Owen, "Anthem for Doomed Youth"
"Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine." —Mayvar, minion of Geth
"Of all I that I have lost, I miss my mind the most."
The bodies of its victims are the only tracks it leaves.
Think of it as a butcher knife with wings.
In addition to killing peasants, punishing subordinates, and raising an army of nightmares, Braids somehow found time for her favorite hobby: petty extortion.
"Nature cares not for the knowledge to be gained from its study. Better to bleed it dry, lest its potential be wasted on lizards and leaves."
"But high she shoots through air and light, Above all low delay, Where nothing earthly bounds her flight, Nor shadow dims her way." —Thomas Moore, "Oh that I had Wings"
It allows those with dangerous weapons to pass. But not those with dangerous thoughts.
"Wealth means power; the power to subdue, to crush, to exploit, the power to enslave, to outrage, to degrade." —Emma Goldman, "Anarchism"
You won't know what you're missing.
The wise, the righteous, the mighty—the merchant feeds them all.
Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.
"Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face." —Barrin, master wizard
To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers.
"There's an assortment to satisfy all your needs: deep, fleeting, dirty, pure, scientific, philosophical, after, and even fore. For a price."
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies steal jewels for theirs.
"If yesterday was two days ago tomorrow, will the day after tomorrow be today or yesterday?" —Temporal Manipulation 101 final exam, Tolarian Academy
"Secrets? What secrets?"
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
"Gambling with mages never is." —Remin, venerable monk
Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest.
"Who's the crazy one now!?" —Torgle, mountaintop boatmaker
It's easy to believe the monster is a myth—until you feel three hundred thousand pounds of myth crashing down on your ship.
"Let's go over this one more time. . . ."
When your enemies are denied soldiers, they are denied victory.
Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges.
"Getting people to do what you want is merely a matter of telling them what they want to hear."
"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
"There are as many pillows of illusion as flakes in a snow-storm. We wake from one dream into another dream." —Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Illusions"
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
His peers derive knowledge from ancient tomes locked within dark spires. He finds knowledge within the solitude of a lifetime spent watching the Quicksilver Sea.
Barrin's pride in his apprentice was diminished somewhat when he had to get the others back down.
"It followed me home. Can I keep it?"
It doesn't like having visitors . . . unless it's having them for lunch.
The College of Lat-Nam is often forced to expel students whose experiments grow too risky or too cruel.
"Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow." —Aesop, Fables, trans. Jacobs
Tired doesn't even begin to cover it.
Which is more unsettling: the roar of battle or the silence that follows?
"To think that some find sleep a restful state." —Volrath
In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice.
Follow the pathmage —Otarian expression meaning "escape quickly"
"Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once." —William Shakespeare, Julius Caesar
"Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth."
"Returne from whence ye came. . . ." —Edmund Spenser, The Faerie Queene
The wizard who reads a thousand books is powerful. The wizard who memorizes a thousand books is insane.
"Though there is little to be learned from your dust and stones, I shall wring them dry nevertheless."
Little dreamt could seem so cruel As waiting for the wings outspread, The jagged teeth, the burning eyes, And dagger-claws that clench to nerves.
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
"Sit down and read. Educate yourself for the coming conflicts." —Mary Harris "Mother" Jones
You should see how small the map is.
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
Wine and balm for the confessions of the repentant. Razors and irons for the confessions of the unrepentant.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol." —Serra
"No person was ever honored for what he received. Honor has been the reward for what he gave." —Calvin Coolidge
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone. —Arabian proverb
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may take its course."
Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.
Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost. —Vec teaching
"Rise, and I will show you how to run without flagging, fight without raging, and fly without wings."
When she flies above the good, they consider themselves blessed. When she flies above the wicked, they consider themselves dead.
"We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat." —Queen Victoria
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face. —Somali proverb
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"Over the silver mountains, Where spring the nectar fountains, There will I kiss The bowl of bliss; And drink my everlasting fill. . . ." —Sir Walter Raleigh, "The Pilgrimage"
The knight knelt and prayed, first for the sanctity of his land and second for the strength to repel its invaders.
Sometimes the greatest strength is the strength of conviction.
"My enemy's hatred is his weakness. My enemy's anger is my strength." —Remin, venerable monk
"What can a peasant get for free that an emperor can never buy?" —Dal riddle
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
They follow the prophecy to each new prophet, guarding the future from the present.
"I can staunch their blood, mend their flesh, and knit their bones. But I cannot restore their hope." —Tender-Hand, kitsune healer
Behind his eyes is the pain of every soldier his hands have healed.
A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again.
It entered the temple with all the pomp and decorum of a rock hitting a goblin's skull.
The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead.
"There was a wall here. Now it is dust. A tower rose here. Now it is fallen. An army fought here. Now it is dead. A spirit was here. It is all that remains." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
Made from its wearer's hopes, the mask ensures that those hopes will be fulfilled.
"The hour of your redemption is here. . . . Rally to me. . . . rise and strike. Strike at every favorable opportunity. For your homes and hearths, strike!" —General Douglas MacArthur, to the people of the Philippines
"This scar? From a zombie's teeth. This scar? From a barbarian's axe. That scar? I don't talk about that one."
The strength of one. The courage of ten.
Such power protects the body with the strength of the soul.
"The day of Spirits; my soul's calm retreat / Which none disturb!" —Henry Vaughan, "The Night"
The turning of the tide always begins with one soldier's decision to head back into the fray.
Each victory adds a new verse.
Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time.
"He can split a marshfly in two from halfway across the range." —Onean sergeant
"I wouldn't stand in front of that wurm, son. 'Course, I wouldn't stand behind it neither. In fact, standing anywhere near that wurm's not much of a plan. Running, now that's a plan" —Wandering mage
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
"Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens." —Mystic elder
He's smart for a goblin. He can do two things: hit and run.
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!" —Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made that mistake again.
"Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light."
"He spoke with the tongue of Angels; we fought with the strength of lions." —Handel, infantry soldier
"Let's see . . . Mercadia, mercenary, merfolk . . . you know, I really need a better filing system."
The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation.
"Before my eyes was a horrible monster, worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous. . . . Its eight arms, or rather feet, fixed to its head . . . were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair." —Jules Verne, Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea, trans. Lewis
Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member.
Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
"Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed."
Here the soratami wove their endless plots—graceful, artful, and deceitful, while the unwitting world moved below.
"Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed." —Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo
Godo never revealed what went into his special brew, but he always had more of it after great victories.
The words from which language sprang, the knowledge from which thought was born, the story from which history was woven.
It is said that the feathers of a crane are clouds, plucked and sewn together by the hands of the kami.
"Owls filled the skies during the Kami War, harbingers of darker times to come." —The History of Kamigawa
In an age of war, time is measured not by sand but by blood.
The ashes of the dead mingle with the soil, and both become as one.
"I've seen this great land from every angle. I know its every tree, stone, and river bend. Yet I have come to realize that knowing a thing is not the same as healing it." —Diary of Azusa
With a sadness and a sense of hope, Senka left the colony of her birth and, with her attendants, set out to serve as broodmistress, founder of a new colony.
"Scouts of the Sakura Tribe spent two years wandering the forest to learn every leaf and tree. That knowledge was called upon during the Kami War to ensure the orochi's survival." —The History of Kamigawa
"After his death, monks spent ten years transcribing the tattoos from Reki's body and gathering stories from those who spoke with him. Thus the volume you hold was written." —The History of Kamigawa
Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch.
"We have learned much from the orochi."
"In the waning moments of war, humanity's most ancient ancestors return. But whose side shall they make their own?" —Isao, Enlightened Bushi
The ghostly objects around the kami circled faster and faster, creating a dizzying cyclone of motion. When it opened its eyes, it struck.
"Like a riddle, it unwinds. Like a green wind, it reaches out. Like a sudden guilt, it seizes." —Snow Fur, kitsune poet
As Dosan's chant grew in volume, a second, deeper voice rose up in harmony behind it, strong enough to shake the earth and yet vibrant enough to fill the spirit.
The orochi learned how to move swiftly and surely along the forest floor, like fish darting through gull-watched waters.
One thorn to warn, ten thorns to defend, a hundred thorns to destroy.
Even the most benevolent and life-giving of kami joined the war against the mortal world, but only with heavy and sorrowful hearts.
Before Shinka's walls were built, before the torii at Okina stood, she was there, tall and proud against the sky, and she will be there long after they have fallen into dust.
"In our war with the kami, we annihilate what is our own. Do they too suffer ruination in their hidden world?" —Diary of Azusa
Trapped for eons within the sacred gong, the kami boomed and clanged to a deafening tempo as they destroyed their erstwhile prison.
The akki knew to stay indoors on the days the oni flew their kites.
Its fiery visitation burns away the fog of war and dissipates the ties of loyalty.
The akki were surprised to encounter a human who could fight in the caves as well as they.
"Walking the path of the kami only leaves you with singed feet." —Soratami saying
The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare.
"Heart of Sokenzan, I call to you! Lend me your fire."
Hidetsugu never relinquished a grudge. He let it burn within him, gathering ever greater intensity until the final moment of vengeance.
Godo trained their muscles and honed their skills, but he left their hearts wild and empty.
"Through the veil's rip spilled hundreds of minor kami, rushing over the battlefield like embers from a kicked campfire. Then they were gone." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
Wherever it looked, it saw destruction—the wake of its own gaze.
They moved like apes, but a thousand times swifter, prying into every corner, leaving pawprints of ash.
"Kills and cooks your food in one easy stroke."
"I lost my hounds in the war and thus found myself employing akki as servants. I found their training to be remarkably similar." —Kensuke, houndmaster
"What part of 'hayaku ikee!' did you not understand?"
"Beware Adamaro! In him all pain and anger is perfected." —Isao, Enlightened Bushi
"Your blood I'll use. Your skull I'll keep."
It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade.
When nothing remains, everything is equally possible.
"They're numerous, attack in swarms, and are always hungry. No wonder we rats hold such a kinship with them."
Simple bargains are the most tempting, and oni bargains are the simplest of all: eternal life for eternal service.
"Me? No, I'm not going to kill you. I won't even lay a finger on you. I promise." —Kiku, Night's Flower
The mist was thick, cloying, and constricting. Shiro fought his way to fresh air only to look back and see his comrades fallen on the battlefield behind him.
The kirin bellowed—an echoing, twisted parody of its once-inspirational call.
"The sword is just a tool. It is the samurai's hand that delivers death."
Nezumi insect-shamans enjoyed solitary lives, which was fortunate since no other nezumi could stand to live within half a mile of their foul stench.
In the case of violent deaths, kami offered a chance for revenge if the deceased offered up its corpse as a host to the invading kami.
"We had him cornered, we did . . . and, well, you know what they say about rats." —Araba patrol survivor
Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead.
"Life is a series of choices between bad and worse." —Toshiro Umezawa
Sometimes you have to search for inspiration, and sometimes it's right there in front of you.
Some of Minamo's students claimed he was as old as the knowledge he dispensed.
"Stand back. I know just what to do." —Kiki-Jiki, Mirror Breaker
It is all the things that humanity was not meant to know.
Cut off from the kakuriyo by the destruction of their honden, the zubera sought new ways to bring their secrets home.
"My brain hurts."
When Minamo was abandoned, its younger students found themselves thrust into a war beyond their skill with talents beyond their control.
"I feel their unnatural influence in the weary, weeping land. Do they care nothing for the creatures who walk below their clouds?" —Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
Like pools of fog that hid treacherous rocks from sailors' eyes, so too were the hands of the kami.
The scrollkeepers never stepped an inch away from the doors of the Great Library, not even when the ogres and their oni masters swept through Minamo.
It's dangerous indeed to be lost in someone else's thoughts.
"He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami . . . unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick." —Toshiro Umezawa
The apprentice stared in puzzlement. "But Master, you finished writing those spells just yesterday. Don't you remember?" The jushi's heart froze.
When a strong mind moves, form and energy shift to heed it.
"Be careful where your mind wanders. Even in the quietest moments, the kami are listening, and your thoughts give them shape." —Lady Azami
"Soramaro speaks through me. Listen! And I will tell the wisdom of the ancestors."
"The more kami that passed through the veil that separated them from our world, the weaker that veil became, threatening to tear into tatters at the slightest pressure." —The History of Kamigawa
"Despite the massive forces that allied against him, Konda never once believed he would lose the Kami War." —Masako the Humorless
"I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring."
"Humbly I bow. Silently I wait. Deeply I listen."
The paths of the kami crisscrossed Kamigawa like scars left by a maddened surgeon.
"Night wings sprinkled with dust Of a thousand soldiers dead And a thousand cities fallen." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"Watch over my father. Tell him I'm safe, but I won't come home until I find out how to bring him back to his senses, and Kamigawa is again at peace." —Michiko Konda, last letter to General Takeno
"Know your history. The lessons of the past will shield you in times of doubt."
"He kept generations whole before the Kami War, and now he turns his century of wisdom to healing the latest casualties." —Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
"Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes." —Kenzo the Hardhearted
"It seems that each time I visit Lord Konda his guards are more on edge, perhaps even more eager for the war to reach them." —Masako the Humorless
"The sword is just a tool. It is the samurai's hand that brings it to life."
"Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo." —General Takeno
"The air filled with dust and the sound of wingbeats. The mothriders had joined the fray." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"The blood of Kiyomaro flows in my veins. He did not let Eiganjo fall and neither shall I."
"Paint gold upon the wind, Shape the wind into a shield, And vanish behind the brightness." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
All bow at its visitation—some in awe, some in honor, some in fear.
"My finest creations are fashioned after the moths of Eiganjo. They fly higher, faster, and more gracefully than any of my own designs." —Noboru, master kitemaker
"The strain upon the veil between worlds began to show near the end of the Kami War. Strange happenings that neither side could control lashed out across Kamigawa." —Observations of the Kami War
Listen at its walls and you will hear the whispers of gods.
"This god held prisoner in human hands has put all humanity in the hands of angry gods." —Masako the Humorless
"One scratch on a wall meant safe passage, two that the target had already been raided, and three warned of a trap." —Weaponry of Kamigawa
Masako was privy to a great many of Konda's deepest secrets, and her hair was always perfect.
"Behind the eyelids, a flickering flame. Beneath the dream, a flickering sorrow. Can peace find you in this sleep When all the world is tossed by war?" —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
Only in mirrors do heroes find their equal.
"We arrived at the battlefield too late. Again. Another error on your part, and you will have to answer to me personally." —General Takeno, letter to the imperial mapmaker
"That energy was once granted to growing things. Now the kami keep it for themselves, releasing it in sudden floods that overwhelm flesh and foliage alike." —Sakiko, Mother of Summer
"Say, what rhymes with 'run for your lives'?" —Ku-Ku, akki poet
"You know its mood by the plants that spring up around it. When it is placid, fields of lilies flow in its wake; when it is angry, every stem has a thorn." —Isao, Enlightened Bushi
"The husk splits like a madman's smile And mystery steps forth." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"Walk the world and you'll find your soul; search your soul and you'll discover the world." —Diary of Azusa
"I do not care if he claims no allegiance in this war. Find him, Takeno." —Lord Konda
"On the fifty-seventh day of the Battle of Silk, the bell again tolled in hopes of summoning mortal aid. This time, a new breed of kami rose to answer its call." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"The race is run in the mind before the first step is taken." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
"The soratami scoff at the perils of Jukai, calling the forest an 'unruly garden.' Perhaps we should send them a rose such as this." —Dokai, Weaver of Life
"Understanding is not a virtue of the ogre. Do not seek to reason your way into Shinka Keep." —Kiku, Night's Flower
"Those ogres who did not embrace oni worship were cast out, cursed, and forced into hermitage, waiting for the day the oni would come for them." —The History of Kamigawa
"Early in his reign, Konda fell ill. His head burned with fever, and he saw visions of his future. In them, he saw a spirit-child, and, in that child's eyes, a way to make his empire last forever." —The History of Kamigawa
"Here fell Ishi-Ishi, King of the Flaming Pebbles, Scourge of the Mountain Kami, Lover of Goats. May his shell never burn." —Cave inscription
"Thunder broke the brittle silence over the Araba. A surge of raw energy lifted the soldier's body into the air and briefly, in the heart of the flash, he saw the face of a god." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"In desperation, Konda sent warriors to parley with the ogre-magi. No one knows whether they were slaughtered at Shinka or if they even reached its bloodstained walls." —Observations of the Kami War
Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned.
Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling.
Its bite will take off more than a toe.
Mountain ogres allowed blizzards to sheathe them in ice, both to reinforce their armor and to hide their pungent musk from potential prey.
Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood.
"We searched their bodies for signs of the blades that had killed them, but found nothing more than scorched flesh." —Tender-Hand, kitsune healer
"As the war progressed, the destruction the kami caused became more widespread and less predictable." —Observations of the Kami War
There was a dull thunder at the vanguard, then shocked cries in the midst of the column. Moments later, Takada, last of the rearguard, faced the kami alone.
Akki were very territorial, attacking and destroying any settlements that came too close to their mountain homes. The more successful their raids, the bolder they became.
"It remains unclear whether the akki shamans could in fact create storms or simply predicted them." —The History of Kamigawa
It took ninety-nine monks to weave the spell that trapped Yukora. Upon the death of the ninety-nine, the spell was broken, and the demon returned to the mortal world seeking vengeance for its imprisonment.
"As the kami passed over the village of Mita, the inhabitants relived their three most grievous tragedies. Some cried. Some raged. Some were driven to madness. But the next morning, none possessed the will to fight." —Observations of the Kami War
"I prefer to weave my magic through oni blood, but yours will do in a pinch."
"Your lungs may not draw breath, but while your hands can grip a sword, you will be useful to me." —Nighteyes, nezumi necromancer
"Where a once-proud human city stood, only the ruins of Numai remain, deep amid rotting bamboo and plagued by oni." —The History of Kamigawa
"The wizards of Takenuma Swamp faced the horrors of humanity every day. It's no wonder they fared so well against the kami." —Observations of the Kami War
Once freed, the oni demanded more and more sacrifices to appease them. The ogres happily obliged.
"The Okiba Gang! Night-cursed thieves and assassins! I've had enough of their meddling! Triple the guard!" —Marrow-Gnawer
"As more oni walked Kamigawa, more darkness infested its inhabitants' souls." —The History of Kamigawa
"Kyoki, Eater of Minds, Corrupter of Thoughts, Bringer of Madness, Lord of Fear. Return, by our blood, and walk again." —Ogre chant
"What will it say on our graves, Lord Konda? Will it say we led our world to conquer immortal forces or that we were crushed by our own arrogance? At each defeat, I wonder." —Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda
"The two youths argued and tempers flared. One youth opened his mouth to utter a vile curse, but what he spat out instead was a kami of poison and filth." —Sensei Golden-Tail
"The war sent Kamigawa into turmoil. Here it was spring and there winter. For some, time stood still, while for others, moments flashed past like minnows in a pond." —Observations of the Kami War
"Over time, Konda grew ever more suspicious, fearing even his most loyal allies were being manipulated by unseen hands." —The History of Kamigawa
"Do not fall into the trap of thinking you understand the kami. Cannot a drop of water be dew on the meadow, a glacier's thaw, or the tear of a child?" —Sensei Hisoka
"All things return to their beginnings. The waters that spill across the Kamitaki Falls flow to sea, only to be returned to her as the rain that joins the mighty river." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
A child's whisper could crack its shell, but not even an oni's scream could penetrate it.
"If wisdom is a river, then we cup our hands, reach in, and drink from it in sips. The kami, however, are like fish, swimming, breathing, surrounded in its presence." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
"This world is a dream. We cling to our toys like children, but sooner or later we must learn to live without them." —Sensei Hisoka
Many kami could fly, which put some warriors at a distinct disadvantage. The mages of Minamo took it upon themselves to correct that imbalance.
Like storm water through the segments of bamboo, the spell followed the links of magic. Then it destroyed them.
Woven from threads of the spirit world, the mistcloak rendered its wearer invisible, but quickly fell to tatters.
Each spell is an intricate tapestry, and Kira is the great unraveler.
When it's finished, all that's left of you is a ripple on a still pond.
The bolt struck with a flash and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed.
"Once, I looked to the mists for wisdom. Now I wish only for understanding."
"Such a small thing, a drop of water . . . And yet enough of them together can flood a field, cleanse a mire, or choke a forest."
"As I died, I rejoiced. I would see my family again. But then I woke up back on the battlefield. Back in Kamigawa. Back in hell." —Kenzo the Hardhearted
Reluctant to strike at the kami directly, some kitsune trained in more passive fighting techniques.
It was as though the sky opened its eyes and found what it saw displeasing.
"The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within." —Noboru, master kitemaker
Isolated on its little candlewick, the kami never heard of the crime that drove its comrades to war.
At night he perfected his aim, shooting spiderwebs by starlight.
"I wish there were no use for those with my talents. I wish that I could walk Kamigawa forgotten and unneeded, with no war wounds to heal and no broken bones to mend."
Her angry call split the sky. From that rift descended her champions.
"I can staunch their blood, mend their flesh, and knit their bones. But I cannot restore their hope." —Tender-Hand, kitsune healer
"Who am I to judge who is deserving and who is not? That is a question for lords, not healers."
"The bonds of bushido will draw the dishonored back someday, and I will be there waiting."
It remembered all the shadows lantern-cast upon its paper wings, and sometimes those silhouettes played across its shape again, acting out silent tragedies.
"Across the rift of battle, a bridge of gossamer. And for one moment, it holds." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"Forgive me, Saburo. I could not save you. But your blade will not rest in my hand."
"There is a shining in the mortal heart that even the kami cannot reach." —Sensei Golden-Tail
"The clashing warriors turned to face O-Kagachi, the greatest kami, and their sigh of awe was their last breath." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"Crease the folds, bend the paper, turn the spirits, shield the soul."
"Rise like the sun, stand like the mountain, charge like the lion, die as a hero." —General Takeno
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
The Sligh incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force..
The Sligh incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.
I do not know which gives me more pride: the legions of soldiers marching in thunderous lockstep, or the cry of the skyknights riding their rocs like jagged lightning overhead. —Razia
Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch.
In fire there is the spark of chaos and destruction, the seed of life. In ice there is perfect tranquility, perfect order, and the silence of death.
It was probably a lousy spell in the first place. —Ertai, wizard adept
We decide who is worthy of our works. —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
It puts the "fur" in "fury."
Built with neither a way to steer nor a way to stop, the juggernauts were simply aimed at an enemy's best defenses and told to charge.
For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim. —Sisay
I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows. —Seal inscription
Hatred outlives the hateful.
Asses to ashes, Donkeys to dust.
"Ooh . . . shiny!"
"Let them complain. As long as the addictive ink is working, we can do anything we want." PLAY AT YOUR OWN RISK
"But . . ."
YOUR AD HERE
www.wizards.com/hottub
Minutes before the campus watch busted pledge week at the Alpha Beta Unlimited house . . .
"I would have made a 'Spin-The-Bottle' joke if I thought anyone reading this had ever played the game." —Bucky, flavor text writer
This card is named My First Tome.
This card is named My First Tome.
There was no darker or more evil creation in all the multiverse than that of the mana screw.
There was no darker or more evil creation in all the multiverse than that of the mana screw.
"Dear Magic R&D, . . ."
"Dear Magic R&D, . . ."
Help us . . . R&D under mental domination of alien brain in jar . . . only chance . . . Gleemax's blatant disregard for flavor text . . . send help
Help us . . . R&D under mental domination of alien brain in jar . . . only chance . . . Gleemax's blatant disregard for flavor text . . . send help
The only rare you'll ever need. Okay, not really.
These kids know their four-letter words.
Asses to ashes, Donkeys to dust.
"I desire the acquisition of a potassium-rich fruit comestible of substantial magnitude."
"Everyone break into teams. Weaponry, you're with me. Nature group, meet by the palm tree. Stoneworks and metalworks, follow the anvil. Everyone else, gather around the giant V." —Sword of Kaldra
You want "mise" with that?
His friends at the gym never knew Garanth's secret shame. For years he had tried to walk away from professional arm wrestling, but hey—free monkeys.
It grows several feet a year.
It grows several feet a year.
6 PM (23) This Old Grove 98055 A rusted masticore makes a beautiful addition to any garden.
Just call it OMRSTPLRLCNSWMTCTHTALCNEE for short.
"These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's real Magic."
"These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's real Magic."
Gemini (May 21–June 21) This week is a good time to branch out and meet others, but don't forget your roots. Avoid commitments and open flame.
Many matches make more madcap monkey mayhem.
Many matches make more madcap monkey mayhem.
"Two muffins are baking in an oven. One muffin says to the other muffin, 'It's getting hot in here, huh?' The other muffin says, 'Aagh A talking muffin'"
"Two muffins are baking in an oven. One muffin says to the other muffin, 'It's getting hot in here, huh?' The other muffin says, 'Aagh A talking muffin'"
This is not a subliminal message.
This is not a subliminal message.
WARNING: THE DOMINARIAN SURGEON GENERAL HAS FOUND THAT SAVAGE BEATINGS CAN LEAD TO CHUMP BLOCKS, LIFE REDUCTION, AND EVEN GAME LOSS.
R&D Comments BB 10/10: Why does a life-gaining card show an old lady killing people? MR (10/10/03): We'll fix it in the flavor text.
Bitten by radioactive beebles in a freak algebra accident, young Ricky Robertson discovered he'd gained the ability to harness the awesome power of fractions
Our lawyers say no matter how funny it would be, we can't encourage players to eat the cards. Hear that? Whatever you do, don't eat the delicious cards.
The party was going strong for nearly an hour past midnight—then all of a sudden it just petered out.
There once was a player named Quinn, . . .
There was a farmer, had a hound . . .
It puts the "vortex" in "flavortext."
Judge's ruling: The interior of the face still counts as the face, so a nose-pick is legitimate grounds for saying "Gotcha"
Judge's ruling: The interior of the face still counts as the face, so a nose-pick is legitimate grounds for saying "Gotcha"
Is it six?
"Selecting the proper beeble is the key to a good sauté. The pinker the fur and the heartier the yelp, the more succulent the beeble will be when you pop it in your mouth." —Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, The Underworld Cookbook,
She was winning the Dominarian "Are You Hot?" competition until disaster struck during the wet T-shirt round.
"487. You're welcome." —Bucky, flavor text writer
"Ooh—right in the colon."
IOU one parashoot —Urk, mogg fanatic
Poached Rukh Eggs Rock Cooked Rock Unicorn-on-the-Cob Wormfang Turtle Soup
Poached Rukh Eggs Rock Cooked Rock Unicorn-on-the-Cob Wormfang Turtle Soup
What began as black Has slowly shifted to red. Fickle color pie.
They put the "special" in special weapons and tactics.
SECRET AGENT PD042198 LICENSE TO BE KILLED
Pretending to be inside an invisible box was easy enough for Brug. It was finding the invisible door that caused him problems.
Pretending to be inside an invisible box was easy enough for Brug. It was finding the invisible door that caused him problems.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
Befuddled by this new game, Argg longed for the days of Rock, Rock, Rock.
Envying the intelligence of goblins is a bad place to be.
Until he got singed . . .
Who wants to see a picture of a big hairy ass?
Tired of always being picked last, the wizard Zzzyxas created the ultimate revenge.
The real advantage of being a zombie gamer? No one notices the stench.
Oh, does your nose itch?
"Get it? Bunnies, letters, -X/-X? Me neither." —Bucky, flavor text writer
"Get it? Bunnies, letters, -X/-X? Me neither." —Bucky, flavor text writer
Ever the warrior, Glissa responded with a "wedgie from beyond Uranus."
"C'mon, choose 'monkey.' Everybody loves monkeys"
Now for a squirt of lemon juice.
The torches and pitchforks were no match for Rebecca's fans.
"Word to me."
Getting "Gotcha'ed" again and again.
True, Gargox had blinded himself for life, but the glass eyes never lost.
Will players understand that the creature is being crushed by two parentheses? Not a chance.
Real men use Arabian Nights boosters.
"That's not really an A. It's an Æ. They changed it! Wait, don't—" —Hæbrus Væm, Ærathi librarian, last words
He wanders the land in search of Good Ass.
He wanders the land in search of Good Ass.
"Here on going is heck the what?"
Playing Unhinged, . . .
"I don't get it. Why doesn't anybody like me?"
And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."
And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic."
"What the . . . ?"
"What the . . . ?"
Can you digit?
The quick onyx goblin jumps over the lazy dwarf.
Interesting tidbit: Surveys show that the card Ow has one of the most popular pieces of flavor text in the Unglued expansion.
mise 'miz v alter. of might as well (1997) 1: to win when you don't deserve to 2: to top-deck the "tings" you need 3: to be rewarded by an opponent's bad luck 4: to coin a phrase that spreads through the tournament scene like wildfire 5: to fling a monkey 6: to split firewood using a sharp instrument 7: To burn
1|= y()u (4|\| r3@d 7#][5, y0|_| /\r3 @ IVI0/\/$+3|2 &33|<
Your sentence can't be longer than this one.
"Just wait till I get my Krark-Clan Ironworks, Genesis Chamber, and Grinding Station. Oh yeah, and a second Myr Retriever."
"Don't worry about it. It happens to every mage sooner or later."
Players that don't read flavor text aren't too bright, sorta smell, and dress funny. But let's just keep this between us, okay? They can get kind of violent.
Save a kill spell to deal with this guy.
Like thousands of others, the beebles quit Magic for several years following the release of the Mercadian Masques set.
He gives credit where credit isn't due.
PRICELESS PIC PILFERED Painting Found Abandoned in Graveyard Merfolk Decry Wizards' Treatment
{1}: This card's flavor text becomes the flavor text of your choice. (This ability doesn't work because it's flavor text, not rules text (but neither does this reminder text, so you figure it out).)
"Suck on it, Stangg" —Sol'kanar the Swamp King
Mongo's fleas no longer bothered him. But the family of goblins that had moved in behind his left ear was starting to get really irritating.
They're the chair-men of the bored.
They're the chair-men of the bored.
Who consistently managed to win.
You need to be this tall to play this card.
In the future, she may be a distinguished leader, a great scholar, or a decorated hero. These days all she does is pee the bed.
"I said 'Put him in a core set, not a corset'" —Richard Garfield, Ph.D.
Don't cross him or you'll end up sleeping with the merfolk.
The Yotian soldiers hoped that one day R&D would make an artifact creature whose name starts with Z. And in their dreams, it's a 4/1.
Dear Mr. and Mrs. Cranford, After careful analysis of Jeremy's vocational testing, I feel that he is best suited for a career in either torture or art direction.
The ogre appealed the match loss and got it downgraded to a warning.
The ogre appealed the match loss and got it downgraded to a warning.
"My Pete Venters theme deck is nearly complete. Then I shall be unstoppable Bwahahahaaa" —Pete Venters
"Here—have a Mudhole."
And you thought Yawgmoth drove a hard bargain.
"Step 1: I believe in a power and toughness greater than myself . . . ."
Isthay iecepay ofay avorflay exttay oesn'tday eallyray aysay anythingay.
Untaidake is the needle that weaves the fabric of creation.
Centuries ago, Shizo was a verdant field of wildflowers. After 891 samurai died in a single battle on its grasses, it became a haunted moor.
The glow from within looks inviting, but woe awaits whomever finds out who stokes the fire or what simmers in the pot.
If a land can be said to have a heart, Okina is the heart of Kamigawa.
Its students graduate the school and enter history.
Since the war began, the castle's walls mark the only place on Kamigawa where no kami has ever set foot.
Lanterns carved from the mystic stones of the Reito Mines were said to light the way of lost souls.
Not keen-edged enough for cutting armor, the no-dachi slew by folding its victim rapidly and violently under the weight of its impact.
"We received an anonymous letter suggesting that Kumano holds a secret to defeating the kami, but he is nowhere to be found." —General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda
Long ago, the priests would wave the gohei to call down the gods. Now it lies forgotten, but the spirits still feel its pull.
"From the clouds, you can see as far as the distant horizon. It's a reminder of the infinite possibilities of everyday life." —Noboru, master kitemaker
Before the Kami War, the shishi were symbolic guardians, protecting the shrines where they stood. But after the kami turned on the material world, shishi began pouncing from their perches to attack would-be supplicants.
"Just looking at it fills me with dread . . . . Yet since it arrived, I've done little else. My blades have dulled and my business has failed, and still I cannot look away." —Keisaku, master swordmaker
Before being presented to its lord, each shaku is blessed by every hero of every region within that lord's domain.
"The Kami War drove many members of Konda's court insane. As their spiritual world turned against them, so too did their minds turn from reality." —The History of Kamigawa
"When the kumo attacked the monks' sacred shrine, a mournful toll for help echoed through the forest. Thus began the Battle of Silk, which would last six years." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"No sooner had the beast collapsed under the blows of Takeno's sword than the earth rippled and the creature rose again to face him." —Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale
It spoke with the voice of nature, but its words were curses spat upon humankind.
His family was the first to reach out to the human monks. He soon knew as many koans as he did blade strikes.
There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death.
"The warriors deal in poison and fangs. We shamans remember why our ancestors crawled with their bellies to the earth."
"Nothing is the same anymore. The forests are not as lush, the waters not as pure, the air not as clear. Without the kami to direct and sustain the forces of nature, it's only a matter of time before we feel their neglect."
"The young come to me, confused. They have been taught to respect the kami, and now they must fight them? I do not know what to say." —Sachi, to her father
"Only orochi hatched from eggs 'touched by the kami' may become shamans. These days, there are fewer and fewer new shamans being born."
"Our bodies are weak compared to those of the kami, our knowledge limited, and our magic poor. Yet we draw breath. That alone is reason to hope."
"Without the kami to speak to nature on our behalf, we must beg help from nature directly." —Seshiro the Anointed
Kami manifest in the form of whatever they embody in the physical plane. Some tower in the shape of moss or bark, while others take forms beyond mortal imagining.
Jukai Forest was known for its secrets, which drew in many wayfarers and wizards. But it was those same secrets that kept most of those seekers from ever being heard from again.
"The land grows only where the kami will it." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
"The monks of the South Tree had always reveled beneath their kodama's friendly gaze. During the Kami War, this gaze became fierce and full of hate." —"Poem of the Five Trees"
"The monks of the North Tree rarely saw their kodama until the Kami War, when it woke like a slumbering, angry bear." —"Poem of the Five Trees"
The orochi and the monks had always had an unspoken agreement: live and let live. But when the kami began raging, some warrior youths began questioning that agreement.
"Don't worry, Jiro. The kami would never attack us this close to home . . . . Jiro?" —Hoto, temple guardian, last words
Dosan's monks, deep in spiritual thought, could walk through the thickest of forests without leaving a mark, even the leaves beneath their feet unaffected by their passing.
"I have been gifted by the kami with long life. So far, they have not seen fit to withdraw their gift. There may yet be a way to stop the killing without more blood, human or kami, being spilled." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
Iname rejoices in the dawn of a new life, but soon becomes jealous of the simple joys denied him by his station. So the cycle begins anew.
Each time wanderers entered the forest seeking enlightenment, Dosan was there, waiting for them to arrive.
To the sorrow of all, its web became a net that strangled those who helped weave it.
"It is true that we monks hold the key to paradise, but most don't understand that the paradise we guard is the one within." —Diary of Azusa
It grew in lands lit by pride and watered by tears.
Dosan sat in repose for many hours. He made no motion, no sound at all. And as he sat, nature revealed itself to him.
Everything the kami had done, they did with more force. Gentle breezes became typhoons, rolling rivers turned to crushing rapids, and gentle growth became overnight masses of thorns and vines.
"The dust beneath our feet was once part of a mighty civilization. Shall we too provide the path for a future generation?" —Sensei Golden-Tail
When the Honden of Life's Web was destroyed, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to ensure mortal defeat.
"Each night as Master Dosan prays to the kami, the hate he receives in return withers his body a little more. Though the kami are slowly killing him, still he continues his prayers." —Meditation journal of a young budoka
"I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home."
"He can cause a lot of pain and do it with no fuss. That's all good, but I just wish he didn't do it to us" —Ku-Ku, akki poet
"How can we hope to match the speed of lightning? The fury of storms? The power of mountains? The answer is simple. We cannot. I advise against this war." —Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda
"We are trapped. The mountains and blinding kami storms have made us hopelessly lost. We are starving. In the name of all things sacred, please, send help . . . ." —Lost Battalion, final message to General Takeno
To an akki warrior, gravity is the direction of the nearest unsmashed face.
"The kami struck with gouts of fire, showers of rock, and the combined rage of the spirit world. Only Eiganjo Castle remained standing, glistening untouched in the sun." —The History of Kamigawa
"In every other mind, the battle was lost. General Takeno alone was not touched by despair. Drawing his blade, he was attack and rallying cry in one." —Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale
"We camped near the Sokenzan Mountains. Though I know its inhabitants are sparse, I hear cries coming from the highest peaks every night, as if the mountains themselves bellow for vengeance." —Lost Battalion, message to General Takeno
Hisoka's wizards struggled for years to master the art of redirection that came so naturally to the shamans of Ganzan Pass.
Their dominion over dark and destructive forces twisted the oni into beings of pure malevolence.
Some samurai fell so far out of grace that only dogs would keep them company.
"All kami are our enemies now, A very tough lesson to learn. But it's one that's taken quickly, When you feel what it's like to burn" —Ku-Ku, akki poet
"We've stumbled upon a network of caves not on our maps. We can only hope it is safe to spend the night." —Lost Battalion, message to General Takeno
"It is the nature of humanity not to worry about tomorrow, especially when there's a good chance they won't live to see the end of today." —Kiku, Night's Flower
Some kami attacks during the war were rife with trickery, subterfuge, and subtlety, draining hope and pride from the mortal world. Other attacks were a lot more straightforward.
"Long before he reluctantly joined the war, stories spread of Kumano's followers winning victories against the kami." —Observations of the Kami War
"I can hear the shamans chanting in the hills. They say their magic will protect us from the kami, that our gold has bought our safety. But no one sleeps soundly tonight." —Scroll fragment from the ruins of Reito
To the sorrow of all, its rage became focused on those who once stoked it.
"Every treachery, great or small, begets a spirit that rages at the injustice. Given the opportunity, each will return that treachery to its owner tenfold." —Sensei Hisoka
The most powerful of akki fire spells were developed at the cost of blood, toil, tears, sweat, and usually a nose or two.
When the Honden of Infinite Rage shattered, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to sow mortal destruction.
It scaled the Sokenzan Mountains in search of Kumano's secret. The mountain shook for two days, and the kami never returned.
It is said that the mere touch of a kami is like embracing the sun itself.
"The threat of the kami was made worse by the blood rituals of the ogres, who freed terrifying oni to wander Kamigawa unhindered." —Observations of the Kami War
"I can post only the most honorable and strong-willed samurai to defend your stronghold. I have seen what can happen to lesser men." —General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda
Some akki thought of Ben-Ben as a kami of trickery in disguise. They hunted for him in the maze of warrens, often falling prey to his traps.
"I fought fiercely, bravely, and without mercy. Had I not struck down my captain in the heat of battle, I might have become a hero instead of an outcast."
"Deep inside the Sokenzan Mountains, a band of akki discovered a cache of ancient items of power. Their ensuing spree of destruction became known as 'The Three Days of Fun.'" —Observations of the Kami War
The lava-proof shells of akki evolved over centuries, as akki pranks almost always got seriously out of hand.
No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks.
Among Godo's hordes, "beware of falling rocks" came to mean "akki live nearby."
The sound of children weeping is a song that fills its heart with joy.
"Once each year, the oni and other evil spirits paraded through villages to disturb mortals' sleep. During the war, this parade became a nightly event." —Observations of the Kami War
"The war saw the ogres emerge from their caves, reeking of blood, with the power of oni in their veins." —Observations of the Kami War
"We are recalling all forces from the Takenuma Swamp. We lose men daily to kami attacks, and it seems our defeats only encourage them further." —General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda
"If you would taste the wisdom of the oni, be prepared to salt it with your blood." —Kiku, Night's Flower
"The battle at Ganzan Pass was a testament to human endurance. The untrained and frightened group escaped three legions of kami, leaving more than their share of slain foes in their wake." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"The Reito Massacre was a testament to the kami's unstoppable power. The human defenders might as well have been moths battling a forest fire." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
"After General Takeno found the Oathkeeper amidst the bamboo marshes, more scavengers braved the swamp's nezumi, oni, and kami in hopes of glory." —The History of Kamigawa
"Although nowhere on Kamigawa was safe during the war, the Takenuma Swamp was the most horrifying. The rotting bamboo itself rebelled against its mortal inhabitants, pulling them into unmarked graves." —Observations of the Kami War
"Blood flows. Blood calls. Blood devours all and only blood remains." —Ogre chant
"Beware the blade of dishonor. It kills more silently than war, more quickly than age." —Sensei Golden-Tail
"How can we wage war against ourselves? What happens when the kami of our very souls rise against us? I answer simply: We cannot. We die. There can be no victory in this war." —Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda
"Some nezumi became as skilled in the samurai arts as the humans and kitsune. Yet no lord would have them, so they sold their swords to the highest bidder." —The History of Kamigawa
"These nezumi, they disgust me. The things they will do for money no other thinking creature would consider. This, of course, makes them useful beyond words." —Meloku the Clouded Mirror
Four generations ago, old Split-Tail stole a bundle of scrolls from the Minamo School. Soon after, the first nezumi shamans were born.
"Not all mortals fought the kami. The ogres revered the oni, while some humans made pacts based upon empty promises." —The History of Kamigawa
Marrow-Gnawer united three nezumi gangs when he slew their leaders in a single night. Now they call him their first lord.
"A wanderer has told me of an assassin in the Takenuma Swamp who uses her dark arts to animate her enemies' shadows against them. A wild tale, but it explains much." —Diary of Azusa
"For a moment, Reito's defenders regrouped. Then wailing kami reappeared to send them scattering like flocks of frightened birds." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
Iname revels in sadistic glee at the crushing of souls, but soon mourns the lives so cruelly cut short. So the cycle begins anew.
"From the ashes of Reito rose a new kami. And thereafter at every battle came Horobi, Death's Wail." —The History of Kamigawa
To the sorrow of all, its dark reach grasped and crushed those who guarded its silent vigil.
"Blood drips. Blood sings. Blood devours all and only blood remains." —Ogre chant
"Today I asked Master Dosan what the ogre mages did with the humans they sacrificed. He gave me a hard look and said to think no more on the matter." —Meditation journal of young budoka
After their worship of oni began, only a few of Kamigawa's ogres remained in the bitter cold of the Tendo Peaks. Most were drawn to the darkness of Takenuma.
"Only one man survived, barely sane. He got out two words before collapsing: shadows' shadows."
"You are fortunate, my enemy. You have paid the price but once. I never stop paying."
"When the rampaging kami at Reito had crushed the opposing militia, swarms of minor kami swept over the battlefield to consume all that remained." —Great Battles of Kamigawa
When the Honden of Night's Reach began to crumble, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to haunt mortal dreams.
"I saw them once, when I was a child. They led me to my parents' arms when I was lost. Why have they abandoned me now? Why won't they take me home again?" —Unnamed beggar
It is madness that drives men to seek forbidden knowledge, and madness has given it form.
"As the rest of the mortal world waged war, Lady Azami and her students invaded tomes of knowledge. Their search yielded spells critical in the fight." —Observations of the Kami War
Words never uttered by mortals flowed incessantly from its many mouths.
Oku-Doku had gone through all the motions: the same akki cursewords, the same ingredients with their horrid stink, the same rude gestures. Yet not a person died.
Their mirrors show two worlds: that which is and that which should be.
"To prevent, one must first predict."
"The clouds obey my whims, and you'll obey theirs."
"You hide your actions from eyes on the ground, but nothing escapes the clouds."
This storm blows gales through the dreams of men.
"Since the war began, fishermen don't sing to the kaijin to ask for full nets. They guard the shore with thrice-blessed spears, saving the nets for their wives to pack their belongings and leave." —Hayato, master sailor
"Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you." —Lady Azami
At the waterfall, the border between the humanoid and the spirit worlds was weakest. The kami moved across it with ease and at will.
He loved his cities in the clouds. When he traveled to the lands below, he brought many reminders of his home.
Its form reflected humanity as it stood during the Kami War: disjointed, confused, and incomplete.
To the sorrow of all, its winds found sin in the hearts of those who once learned from its wisdom.
"With every passing day, the kami shape our world to suit their will. I, for one, would not see them succeed."
"By all rights we should have perished in the Kami War. Our perseverence is a tribute to mortal ingenuity. And perhaps a few forgotten secrets found in the nick of time."
"Do not react to force in kind. Turn it aside. Direct it to where it can do no harm." —Meloku the Clouded Mirror
"It seemed an easy thing, to step into the nothingness, to fall, to die. But then, for an instant, I saw it, eyes filled with endless sorrow, and I turned back to face my pain." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"When you have mastered my lessons, it will seem as though the whole of the world has opened up to your mind and nothing is beyond your grasp." —Lady Azami
When the Honden of Seeing Winds was forgotten, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to uncover mortal secrets.
"The scholars of the Minamo School understood the veil between their world and that of the kami. Moreover, they knew how to exploit it." —Observations of the Kami War
"Once we prayed to the kaijin for safe voyage. Now we only pray that we can escape their gaze." —Hayato, master sailor
"Though in years past speculation was not encouraged about the strange ways of kami, now we must understand their motivations, if such is even possible to the mortal mind." —Lady Azami
"You cannot bar the path of gods. You can only divert their journey for a while." —Sensei Hisoka
"Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth."
"Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami." —Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka
"Lies and deceit do yield results, but legitimate authority is the ultimate form of control." —Meloku the Clouded Mirror
"Put a spear in a peasant's hands, and you have an expendable troop. Put a purpose in his heart, and you win a warrior." —Sensei Golden-Tail
"My life is yours, my lord. There is no greater service than to yield it for your safety."
"The sun kami is terrible to behold. When its temper flares, best seek shade and pray for forgiveness." —Sensei Golden-Tail
When the Honden of Cleansing Fire was abandoned, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to erode mortal will.
From the moment they swore their oaths, they belonged to their lord, sword and soul.
Worse than the years of aging was the burden of memory. The young monk lost his youth and gained a vicarious lifetime of hardship and woe.
"Just as the noble soul calls virtue to itself, the evil soul summons harm." —Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
"When the Kami of Utter Silence passes, walls lose their secrets. Scrolls lose their lessons. Tapestries lose their beauty. Where there was meaning, there is only stillness." —Sensei Hisoka
"The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends." —Journal found in Numai
When the night blossoms open, the wings of Eiganjo take flight.
Konda's servants dared not neglect their duties for a moment under Masako's icy gaze, knowing that what she saw, Lord Konda would hear.
"Snuffing the light of a lantern without saying a small prayer is bad luck. Though its flame can only singe, its soul can repeatedly visit misery on one's house." —Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
The wake of his passage shoved aside the influence of the kami.
She who once led prayers honoring the kami adapted to use her influence to stay them.
Those kitsune trained in the blade preferred to fight with a blade-catching jitte in the off hand, buying them just enough time to deliver the first deadly cut.
In ancient times, precepts of kami law were inscribed onto bridges as a gesture of respect. During the war, humans regarded them as warnings of where not to travel.
"There was a wall here. Now it is dust. A tower rose here. Now it is fallen. An army fought here. Now it is dead. A spirit was here. It is all that remains." —Snow-Fur, kitsune poet
"Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them." —Lord Konda
"Many great warriors died in the first days of the war, as the spirits of their weaponry turned against them with terrifying rage." —Observations of the Kami War
The hound sniffed the air and let slip a low growl. General Takeno looked down at the faithful Isamaru and calmed him with a touch. "Alert the men. The kami are coming."
Her voice was light, her substance music.
"None of you are yet samurai. Defend your homes with honor, die for your cause, and perhaps then you will be worthy of the word." —General Takeno
In peaceful times, these beings escorted the honored kami to their new shrines. In the Kami War, they became the medics of an unstoppable army.
To the sorrow of all, its fire was turned toward those who worshipped it.
"Forgive me, Master Kami, but in the interest of my people I must halt your advance."
Destroyed in one of the first battles of the Kami War, the town of Reito still grieved.
"Imagine a dove flying through smoke. Does the dove injure the smoke? Does the smoke impede the dove?" —Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails
"Virtue is an inner light that can prevail in every soul."
Deep within Eiganjo Castle lay the Palace of Infinite Halls, a seemingly endless network of corridors once guarded by a seemingly endless legion of samurai.
During the war, the rites of purification were still effective, but the kami, not the kitsune, chose what to cleanse.
"General Takeno glared at us as if we were the enemy. 'The day is not over yet,' he shouted, 'and unless you have a nezumi's heart, you will stand and fight'" —Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale
"Our own actions built the prisons that now hold us. Our hands reached too far and tried to hold too much." —Dosan the Falling Leaf
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.
Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.
"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within." —Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
The wires crawl over broken metal and heat themselves to melting, filling cracks quickly and efficiently.
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing. —Druids' saying
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing. —Druids' saying
Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
Panopticon, forge of the Darksteel Eye, home of Mirrodin's keeper.
Its transmissions are the word of Memnarch. It speaks, and metal bows.
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
Because the elves are so in touch with Mirrodin's nature, they understand best how to dismantle it.
All the junk, refuse, and offal of the Krark Clan is diligently collected, melted down, and made into more junk, refuse, and offal.
From trinket to trauma.
Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
The parts are as strong as the whole.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
"Ashes to ashes, rust to rust." —Viridian shaman
He stands in the shadow of his lord, Geth, drinking in the dark energies of the Vault.
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
"If I wanted your opinion, I'd have told you what it was." —Pemmin, Riptide survivor
The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
"The secret to invention is to see something in your mind, then find where it hides in the world."
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"Murder of the living is tragic, but murder of the idea is unforgivable." —Janus, speaker of the synod
"Murder of the living is tragic, but murder of the idea is unforgivable." —Janus, speaker of the synod
For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror.
"The hum of the universe is never off-key." —Mystic elder
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
2004 Vintage Championship Winner
It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea.
The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known.
It takes off with a roar of superheated wind, startling wild pterons as they survey the ground below.
"We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die." —Pontifex, elder researcher
As the fifth sun joins the other four, new abilities awaken in the creatures of Mirrodin.
As the dawns break, the manta soars.
Only a focused mind can survive it.
Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice.
Its transmissions are the word of Memnarch. It speaks, and metal bows.
Hand-stitched, and marked by the blood of the Auriok.
The Krark Clan enjoys pulling them apart just to watch them reassemble one another.
Each myr was designed to fill a specific role. This one, for example, was designed to stomp on other myr.
Each eye sees a different possibility for tomorrow.
All the junk, refuse, and offal of the Krark Clan is diligently collected, melted down, and made into more junk, refuse, and offal.
Goblin cannon crews are known not for their aim but for their ability to dive for cover.
Outside, it reflects the suns' light. Inside, it harvests the suns' power.
"It is all in my grasp. Every petty dream, every grand scheme, every soul, every fear. It all flows through me and from me." —Memnarch
Its power source is time itself. It absorbs unused minutes and hours, bringing the end of existence always closer.
The cube's surface is pockmarked with jagged runes that seem to shift when unobserved.
"All memory of your existence will be wiped from reality. You will die, and no one will mourn." —Memnarch
Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds.
It is the moment of discovery, the triumph of the mind, the reimagining of past glory.
It binds the five suns in human form.
Those near the clock don't hear it anymore, but their every movement is in time with its ticking.
The energy that infuses the rings with life also melts them away, leaving only useless puddles of slag.
A dent marks every year of service, and it has as much rust as glory.
Souls and steel, the essence of Mirrodin. Memnarch lacks one but has an abundance of the other.
It follows the green sun over Mirrodin's surface, spinning massive webs of whispersilk as it goes.
These machines build fearsome visages out of scrap metal to scare off predators who would otherwise be eager to consume them.
They know a hoverguard's only blind spot is directly above it.
A small band of elves pledged many years ago to avoid the Edges of Forgetting. They have remained hidden until now.
It outnumbers you one to many.
"The Tangle loans you life. Spend it well."
"I have no fangs, yet I constantly bite. I have no scales, yet I slither through you. What am I?" —Riddle of the viper's venom
Any creature on a druid's shoulder is his family, any land under his feet his home.
Every scar is a lesson, every battle a test of what you have learned.
The ouphes finally managed to still the clockwork monstrosity by catching themselves in its cogs.
A talented apprentice makes all things. The master makes all things possible.
"Tracking a fangren pack is easy. Catching up to one is fatal." —Viridian scout
She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry.
Only Sylvok magic could truly capture the perfection of a Mirrodin sunrise.
To some the birth of the fifth sun was a sign of doom. To others it was a sign of salvation. But to all it was a sign.
A chorus of life heralds the arrival of Mirrodin's final sun.
Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces.
Vulshok shamans summon spark elementals to burn paths through thick underbrush—or through goblin salvage squads.
He's got an axe to grind.
"Why learn hundreds of spells when you can learn only one and use it to steal hundreds?"
On Mirrodin, mages who call upon the power of rust are shunned by their people and often turn mercenary to survive.
The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled.
Among the Vulshok, the most prized blades are those that killed their original owners.
Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth.
The Krark Clan believes it's caught an ogre. The ogre believes he's caught seven goblins.
"Well, I jammed the whatsit into the whackdoodle, but I think I broke the thingamajigger."
When you feel a rumble in the ground, hold perfectly still. One sound will bring the hellion.
When enough artifacts lie too long in the same place, their magical radiation weakens reality, opening rifts of unpredictable destructive power.
There aren't that many ways to destroy a solid steel weapon, but somehow the goblins keep finding new ones.
Perhaps he shuns technology. Perhaps he appreciates nature. Perhaps he doesn't know the difference.
Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure?
The path of least resistance is often through your enemies.
For millennia they wandered from plane to plane, devouring all metal. Finally, their wanderings are over.
The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost.
Victims are lucky if they remember ever having had what was lost.
In the swirling mists, you could walk right up to one and not know until its teeth are in your throat.
The Moriok call the black moon the Whisperer. At her apex, she whispers of power.
The Moriok scavenge for weapons, for armor, for food—and ultimately for their souls.
Necrogen enflames certain emotional centers in the Morioks' brains: hate, aggression, and especially greed.
Those who find death under the black sun's shadow cannot escape its pull.
The deadliest killers serve only those who are not afraid to die.
The necrogen may have taken its sight, but it can still taste the fear of its prey.
"Feel the burn of the mists. Master them. They will devour your enemies." —Geth, keeper of the Vault
Its precious corpses dance like puppets to attract mindless nim prey.
Its laughter drives needles through your mind.
It shuns everything except its next meal.
A vertical scream pierces the night air and echoes doom through the clouds.
The vedalken see other beings from a cold distance, as either experimental subjects or objects of study.
It is telling of the vedalkens' culture that they trust human couriers more than their own comrades.
Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him.
"I watched a ship sail right through it. I thought it was harmless . . . until I saw what it had done to the crew." —Bruenna, Neurok leader
"Perhaps I should take Mirrodin apart and begin again." —Memnarch
They only appear in emergencies, and emergencies never last long.
Æther portals drift across Mirrodin's surface, dragging creatures across time and space.
Under its mists, the earth sleeps.
Vedalken weapons sold to outsiders are as dependable as the vedalken themselves.
Power begets power.
To look into its light is to meet the gaze of history.
"They are like their vedalken masters: untouchable, aloof, and omnipresent." —Bruenna, Neurok leader
Sometimes "innovation" means "stealing another's secret before anyone else can."
"All beings have an inner light. Let me show you yours." —Ushanti, leonin seer
Some blades seek their own wielders.
Though the grip of a golem is strong, the grip of Auriok magic is far stronger.
"Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows." —Skyhunter creed
"If what I have seen comes to pass, we will need our guardians more than ever." —Ushanti, leonin seer
"Yesterday's relics will determine the outcome of tomorrow's war." —Ushanti, leonin seer
The Auriok learned perseverance from their forebears. They learned justice from the leonin.
Some believe that Raksha, youngest of the kha, is the reincarnation of Dakan, the first and mightiest of leonin leaders.
Long ago, the Auriok attempted peace with the loxodons. The leonin attempted war. Neither succeeded.
The loxodon ascribe religious superiority to those born albino, believing them to be spiritually pure.
"I may be kha, but without my soldiers, my people, I am nothing." —Raksha Golden Cub
"Memnarch shall rage against us. We shall endure."
The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one.
Each generation, a handful of Auriok girls are allowed to visit the Cave of Light. They return riding the wind and brandishing steel.
"Memnarch or the vedalken salvage most of the large machines, leaving us only scraps. Scraps are enough."
"Her will shall banish the shadows. Her might shall punish the lawless. Her beauty shall restore the light." —Ushanti, leonin seer
Raksha watched as the goblins continued to pour onto the Razor Fields. "They just don't know when to stop, do they?"
Panopticon, forge of the Darksteel Eye, home of Mirrodin's keeper.
A wurm knows nothing of deception. If it opens its mouth, it plans to eat you.
"The lifespan of a wirefly can be precisely described as 'short.'" —Bruenna, Neurok leader
Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters.
It gives legs to the earth and wings to the sky.
The undead may outlast the living, but those who have never lived outlast them both.
It still stares accusingly at Memnarch, though millennia have passed since he separated the eye from its body.
The longer it weaves through the twisted vines of the Tangle, the more it adopts their hidden strength.
The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability.
It rolls with the punches.
The longer it stands among the deadly blades of the Razor Fields, the more it adopts their harsh exterior.
The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper.
Memnarch created the myr with three qualities in mind: dependability, controllability, and disposability.
One thing the myr can't do is enjoy the scenery.
In the blur between metal and flesh, Memnarch found madness.
Bright as a mirror, dark as the sea.
The goblins built it far larger than the cave opening, but to their glee, it smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new exit.
The book shrieks horribly until its cover is opened, granting the spirit inside a moment's rest from the painful stirrings of the book's contents.
"As the experimental population grows, so do the number of myr. It's a perfect equilibrium." —Memnarch
When Mirrodin's varied civilizations developed ways to fight the levelers, Memnarch upped the stakes.
The longer it skulks through the corrosive gases of Mephidross, the more it adopts their thirst for death.
In close proximity, their magnetic energies merge and form a field of protection.
Though no longer attached to the hand, it still holds its adversary in its grasp.
Its curve mimics the twists of life and death.
The ultimate treasure is one that guards itself.
"Did it have this shape upon Mirrodin's creation, or did some inconceivable force shape the unshapable?" —Pontifex, elder researcher
It converts the faintest surges of power from Mirrodin's core into usable energy, providing endless power for Memnarch's creations on the surface.
Everything in its path is either pushed aside or ground under.
The parts are as strong as the whole.
Break in case of emergency.
It breaches not physical distances but temporal ones.
If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it.
"I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win."
"We have no sun to guide our dead, so I tend the prismatic flames of the spirit fires that show the souls their way. When I die, I hope there is one left to guide my spirit home."
Thanks to the wolves, Tel-Jilad is the one area of Mirrodin the myr don't see often.
"When the levelers come again, we shall be ready for them."
In bringing life to Mirrodin, Memnarch was more successful than he knew—for Mirrodin began to take on a life of its own.
They're considered good luck by the elves they don't eat.
Strange times make for strange allies.
Wurms compete for nesting grounds near the Radix. The young who hatch closest have the best chance for survival.
From the Radix at the hub of the Tangle all the way out to the Edges of Forgetting, a Viridian elf's life is built around the temporary.
Before predators or prey, there was life.
"Ashes to ashes, rust to rust." —Viridian shaman
Gelfruit grows abundantly wherever Sylvok druids live, as if the Tangle knows that humans are not as hardy as the beasts or as nimble as the elves.
In the Tangle, bad is often followed by worse.
A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth.
Tel-Jilad's sworn protectors are the trolls, yet more fearsome protectors were created by the Tangle itself.
It must eat its weight in metal daily, or its furnacelike belly will consume itself for lack of fuel.
Compared to the fire of the forge, the strength of steel is nothing.
"I used to joke that he had been exiled for being too smart. Now I know why he never laughed." —Glissa Sunseeker
"You might want to work on your aim."
Before wars or weapons, there was anger.
Fallen enemies are fed to the scavengers. Fallen friends are thrown into the Great Furnace, their souls returned to the Great Mother.
A Vulshok weapon strikes with the fire of the forge that made it.
Always easily impressed, Durg was about to be blown away.
"Now I'm thirsty." —Korva, Vulshok battlemaster
The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death.
A single misstep unleashes an avalanche of ruin.
"Is it the stomping kind or the munching kind?" —Slobad, goblin tinkerer
"If only the living were so easily salvaged." —Memnarch
Because fighting is easier than figuring out what else to do.
Every creature on Mirrodin is a lightning rod.
When leonin settlers abandon their homes to the nim, items of value are often left behind.
There's no escaping an enemy that lives inside your head.
The beetles feed not on the flesh of corpses but on the metal, grinding out the iron and steel to add to their own bulky shells.
Before tyrants or torturers, there was evil.
It is one of the oldest nim, steeped so long in the Dross that it has lost all vestiges of humanity.
Scavengers are always the first to pay their respects.
In Mephidross, refuse doesn't last long—it's all scavenged, reanimated, or consumed.
Their pain is so great, they can't help but share it with others.
Even on a world of metal, there are those who thirst for blood.
Mephidross claims all life within it. What cannot be twisted is absorbed.
A single fear unleashes a torrent of nightmares.
The swarm's million wings stir the foulest of breezes.
Bottom feeders sometimes rise to the top.
"The one who dies with the most toys is still dead." —Geth, keeper of the Vault
"May you wake to find you were only ever a dream." —Mephidross curse
"The druids would be better off if they spent more time in the lab and less time watching trees grow." —Pontifex, elder researcher
Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose.
Memnarch shared a touch of his power with the vedalken in return for their service. It is a debt he intends to collect.
"Secrets are meant to remain secret." —Memnarch
"Today's paperweight, tomorrow's leveler." —Bruenna, Neurok leader
Before labs or lectures, there was insight.
"Why should I be bound by rules when I can see so far beyond them?"
After the researcher's astonishing success, his assistants spent six hours finding a way to return the specimens safely to the ground.
As long as there are questions to be asked, the vedalken will ask them.
"Someday, someone will best me. But it won't be today, and it won't be you."
It could be made to run silently, but its low hum reminds the Neurok that they are always watched.
A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief.
Stealing goblin weapons would be easier if the goblins were smart enough to let go.
"Your arrogance is my best weapon."
Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize.
Theirs is a craft brought about by necessity, now raised to the level of art.
"I have seen the end of times, a future in which all our kind are torn from this world." —Ushanti, leonin shaman
Leonin raising ceremonies take place at the white sun's dawn, the rebirth of artifacts mirroring the birth of a new day.
For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror.
Before religion or civilization, there was order.
Defending to the death isn't always enough.
The Auriok have fought the metal hordes for so long now that knowing how to cripple them has become an instinct.
As the nim storm across the plains, a lone priest stands in their path. At his silent gesture, the battle line breaks, and the tide turns.
Her instinct is as sharp as her blade.
The strongest of the pride are measured not by the steel in their hands but by the steel in their souls.
"Bend with the storm, then reply in kind."
A single light unleashes a hail of cleansing.
"Give me a bit of steel and I'll deliver it into the hearts of my enemies."
Limited time offer. Void where prohibited. Limit one per purchase. Valid only in participating duels. This coupon is nontransferable and invalid if shattered, crumbled, detonated, pillaged, or otherwise disenchanted. Cash value less than 1/20 of a cent. Offer not valid in Quebec, Rhode Island, or where prohibited by law or the DCI.
Few remember the exploits of Dakkon's grandmother, Eunice Blackblade.
Mung noticed a few clouds gathering in the sky. Perhaps today he could perform his "walking against the wind" routine.
Make your judgment wisely: The right pack will let you defeat your nemesis, but a poor choice can only end in torment. And Homelands.
Statistically mind-staggering as it might seem, the term "mise" was in fact coined simultaneously by over one thousand Magic players.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
They exist to cease.
"Let's do it again!" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end/ Of this new glorious world... ?'" —John Milton, Paradise Lost
I see more than other because I know where to look —Saprazzan vizier
My family protects all families.
You will learn to earn death. —Volrath
I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you. —Takara, to Eladamri
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
Options will cost you, but a lack of options will cost you even more.
It turns prey into predator.
Otaria's last defense against the wave of chaos threatening to engulf it.
Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim.
Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin.
Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana.
Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde.
An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities.
"He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within." —Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales
When dictated by blinkmoth migratory patterns, clouds of tiny lights well up from Mirrodin's core.
Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides.
Poets dream the verses of otherworldly stories. Artificers dream the blueprints of otherplanar artifacts.
It responds with unnatural precision.
The wires crawl over broken metal and heat themselves to melting, filling cracks quickly and efficiently.
Etched on its surface are warnings from a long-lost race of ur-golems pushed to the brink of extinction.
The ur-golem etchings begin by celebrating Mirrodin's creator, a golem of almost limitless power. They end by cursing its protector, a being called Memnarch.
Its etchings tell the ur-golems' stories of an entity able to force life into a lifeless plane.
The ur-golem runes tell of the transformation of Mirrodin's warden from silent guardian to merciless god.
Centuries before the first blades of the Razor Fields chimed in the wind, Mirrodin echoed with the golems' footsteps.
Etched on Tel-Jilad's trunk is an entire history of Mirrodin—except for an expanse near the ground scrubbed smooth by an unknown hand.
As if there's glitch in the system, the Tangle sometimes folds in on itself, throwing off sparks of mana in a mystifying display.
Druids converted swaths of the Tangle into tanglebloom orchards. Though heavy tools are needed to cut a leaf in the Tangle, tanglebloom fruit is easily plucked by hand.
"Cure that which was never ill." —Spellbomb inscription
"We sculpt the land into what we need—homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from commanding the terrain." —Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
It fights with inhuman vigor.
Metal permeates the marrow of every bone in Mephidross—except one.
The vedalken saw the myr as toys, unaware of the intelligence lurking behind their empty eyes.
An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it.
Where herds have passed, the dented ground is lined with piles of rust.
"Melt that which was never frozen." —Spellbomb inscription
The same devices sold as surgeons' tools in Lumengrid are sold as implements of torture in Mephidross.
Never content, vedalken artificers continually tinker with their creations.
In its heart lies the secret of immortality.
Centuries before the first chimneys of Mephidross belched clouds of toxic gas, only the golems' movements stirred the air of Mirrodin.
Leonin folktales claim it was brought from beyond the sky by the first kha.
Regardless of the century, plane, or species, developing artificers never fail to invent the ornithopter.
Last to charge, last to fall.
All Auriok children know the tale, "Bolgri and the Long Day of Squashing."
It kills with unfeeling malice.
Near Tel-Jilad, the Tangle is almost silent, save for the trolls' chants and the skittering of needlebugs.
"Forget that which was never known." —Spellbomb inscription
Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place.
It knows what you are planning, and does not approve.
Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr.
"The simplest way to plan ahead is merely to be ready for everything." —Pontifex, elder researcher
"Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze."
A step in one direction is two steps away from another.
Centuries before the first branches of the Tangle gave shelter from the suns' cold light, the shadows of golems were Mirrodin's only shade.
When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator.
"Awaken that which was never asleep." —Spellbomb inscription
Once a century, the levelers rip through every corner of Mirrodin, obeying the commands of an unseen master.
The commander tells the troops where to go, but the standard reminds them why they're there.
The Moriok saw the myr as fellow scavengers, never knowing just who the myr were scavenging for.
"I can think of one goblin it ain't so lucky for." —Slobad, goblin tinkerer
The goblins didn't think of the myr at all, which allowed the myr to observe everywhere unhindered.
A model of Mirrodin in both shape and spirit.
Centuries before the first peaks of the Oxidda Chain rewrote the laws of magnetism, the golems patrolled Mirrodin's featureless surface unhindered.
Like all other relics, it was left on the Radix by the elves to be destroyed. Unlike all other relics, it persisted.
The vedalken protect the Knowledge Pool at any cost.
It's a piece of a world the goblins have never seen but would dearly like to blow up.
The leonin thought of the myr as omens, never imagining the sinister fate they foretold.
It destroys with unthinking glee.
Over such beauty, wars are fought. With such power, wars are won.
A solution in search of a problem.
At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds.
It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime.
It hunts with unnerving ferocity.
At the setting of each sun, it emerges to clean Mirrodin's floor of the day's carrion.
They skitter out of the mists to consume fresh kill before Mephidross has a chance to corrode it away.
A single drop turns skin to scale and fist to claw.
The priests tried cursing it. The mages tried dispelling it. In the end, they all obeyed it.
The vedalken know it is not of this world, so they know that this world is not the only one.
The elves thought of the myr as minor threats, just as the myr thought of the elves.
Centuries before the first tides of the Quicksilver Sea rose to meet each new sun, Mirrodin's light shone on the golems alone.
"As expected, this sphere's design reflects the colors of the four moons . . . plus another?" —Pontifex, elder researcher
Cathodions repair the Great Furnace by soldering parts of themselves to the mechanism. Eventually, they become one with the machine.
Reinforcements . . . or refreshments?
As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets buried deep in his memory.
The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations.
First to charge, first to fight.
"Release that which was never caged." —Spellbomb inscription
It takes three weeks for a patrol of hunters to down a slagwurm. It takes just as long to make a single cut in its hide.
Because the elves are so in touch with Mirrodin's nature, they understand best how to dismantle it.
"The Tangle reaches out to itself constantly, forming new connections. We must follow its example."
Mirrodin's inhabitants must be prepared for anything—including suddenly being unprepared.
"The secret of this world weighs upon us, and we have been shaped by time and duty to bear it."
It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest.
For his crimes, he was made to forget all the trolls' secrets. Now he knows only that he is outcast, but not why.
"It is my honor to keep safe Tel-Jilad's secrets, not to know them."
They are extensions of the Tangle, stretching its vines into the furthest reaches of the sky.
One glimpse of an elf's home lasts her weeks away in the wild.
Born amid the molten metal of the Great Furnace, the slith have more than adapted to the perils of a metal world.
If you hear it coming, you're not its prey.
Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare.
Fortunately for it, Mirrodin is a plane without salt.
In its center is a single red ant, a queen that regulates the hive's movements.
The elves learned long ago that anything left here slowly vanishes. Now it is a sacred site where the dead are laid to rest and where unnatural magic is erased forever.
It growls not to threaten, but to summon.
"There's a secret at the heart of this world, and I will unlock it."
Big ones hunt the elves, so the elves hunt the small ones to keep them from getting big.
"Nothing in this world, not even magic, likes to be caged."
The deadliest force on Mirrodin isn't the largest organism—it's the smallest.
Like all forest beasts, it lives by one rule: if there's no room to grow, make some.
In a strange twist of fate, one of the most annoying creatures in the multiverse was brought to the place where it could cause the most damage.
To study the predators of the Tangle, two people are required: one to watch from above, and one to run like hell.
"I would gladly die for the forest, but I'm much better at killing for it."
He experiences every emotion with passion and repays every slight with vengeance.
"I could demonstrate how the leonin sunsplicer works, but then you'd be too dead to buy one."
Goblins generally have two possessions: one per hand.
The path of a goblin shaman is a journey through a thousand ways of hurting people.
The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead.
From trinket to trauma.
Days of planning. Weeks of building. Months of perfecting. Seconds of smashing.
Vulshok mana rituals echo the day when the red sun burst through Mirrodin's surface to take its place in the heavens.
It has an iron stomach. Literally.
When the goblins need more scrap for the Great Furnace, they simply let the ogres loose and follow in their wake.
When the molten rains fall, entire landscapes melt and flow away in rivulets of fire.
In an ironic bit of evolution, the megatog's dozens of teeth are mainly ornamental. It prefers swallowing things whole.
The sooner you see the whites of their eyes, the sooner you'll spill the red of their blood.
"What do you mean, we're out of stuff to melt down? Give me your leg."
The more weapons a goblin breaks in battle, the more respected he becomes.
There's no word in the goblin language for "strategy." Then again, there's no word in the goblin language for "word."
Gron's mind reeled with possibilities, most of which are best left unmentioned.
It's hard to avoid electric shock when the entire plane is metallic.
The goblins have forty-two different words for "ow."
On Dominaria, a scavenger. On Mirrodin, a predator.
A shuffling sound and the smell of ozone follow the slogger as surely as its electric tail.
What is the sound of one head snapping?
Blood is thicker than mortar.
Mirrodin's artificial environment requires its own predators, scavengers, and senseless forces of nature.
"A simple trap in a dark corner of the mind, and their nightmares catch up with them." —Geth, keeper of the Vault
Goblins fear the slith, believing they are children banished from the womb of the Steel Mother, deep within Kuldotha.
A sword that has seen cowardice in battle exacts the price of honor from its wielder.
As imps they were an annoyance. As nim they are a pestilence.
Called "the Dross" by its inhabitants, Mephidross is home to the nim, Mirrodin's mindless, ravenous undead.
The rotting metal feeds the necrogen mists, and in turn the mists feed the nim.
Mephidross filled with roars of fury and wails of despair as the leonin fought to keep their memories from being pulled into the mists.
Many go to Mephidross in search of lost riches. Most end up as part of the cache.
The blast ignores the cage of metal but devours the flesh inside.
"I would never have believed that on a world with four suns there could exist a place so dark." —Glissa Sunseeker
He stands in the shadow of his lord, Geth, drinking in the dark energies of the Vault.
This leash disciplines the master.
Mephidross changes all who dwell there, taking their lives and adding them to its own.
"In the game of conquest, who cares about the pawns if the king yet reigns?" —Geth, keeper of the Vault
Created by the vedalken to guard Lumengrid, the drones' empty eyes look beyond the Quicksilver Sea.
"The Knowledge Pool knows. Memnarch understands." —Janus, speaker of the synod
Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach.
Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides.
The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them.
A slith's form and function are determined by the color of the sun under which it's born.
"Once cast, a spell can be undone. But once revealed, a secret can never again be kept." —Pontifex, elder researcher
The vedalken always put their best thought forward.
"The Knowledge Pool has all the answers—especially 'No.'"
From the murk of Mephidross to the heart of Kuldotha, the vedalken send their servants forth to gather knowledge from every inch of Mirrodin.
The Neurok, like the vedalken, are on a constant quest for knowledge. It is their currency, their trade, their life.
The vedalken order their Neurok sentinels to watch over the shores of the Quicksilver Sea, as if they know of intruders yet to come.
Information pumps like blood through vedalken society.
Although mute, hoverguards get their message across loud and clear.
"I wouldn't want you to hurt yourself." —Bruenna, Neurok leader
No one knows what she is watching, but she never takes her eyes off it.
"The secret to invention is to see something in your mind, then find where it hides in the world."
Since they haven't seen their original master for millennia, golems are eager to take orders from anyone.
"Be thankful I left you your clothes."
"Murder of the living is tragic, but murder of the idea is unforgivable." —Janus, speaker of the synod
"This world reeks of another's hand. Someone or something is defying the power of the gods and shaping this planet. I intend for it to stop." —Glissa Sunseeker
Purity rejects artifice.
Within seconds, the nim was consumed in blinding sunfire. Afterwards, only a puddle of molten iron remained.
Instinctively drawn to the light of its "mother-sun," each slith follows that sun's path around Mirrodin.
"They are the first to raise the alarm when the levelers attack, and the first to risk their lives to defend the pride." —Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha
Every young leonin wishes to become a skyhunter, for they soar closest to the suns.
The bright tunnel sometimes leads back to life.
Appointed by the kha himself, members of the tribunal ensure all disputes are settled with the utmost fairness.
"We protect our homelands. Why should they not protect us?"
"The nim raid our homes without warning. We must defend our homes without hesitation."
The loxodons believe punishment comes in two steps: pain and atonement. They carry a weapon for each.
The Auriok believe that in the hands of a loxodon, no weapon can be broken.
The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead.
"The wisdom of the elders is just as much a weapon as a sword or spear. We must learn to wield it." —Ushanti, leonin seer
No one under the four suns can elude the watchful eye of the den-guard.
Only leonin clerics who can survive the Razor Fields for one turning of the suns can stand in the Cave of Light.
Stunned by the mere presence of the leonin kha, the nim raider quickly fell to its knees.
"My grandfather knew enough spells to fill a hundred scrolls. Nowadays, if a spell cannot fight the levelers, it is not even taught to our young."
They put their safety in his hands. He puts sharpened steel in theirs.
The Auriok have learned through constant struggle that allies are more precious than water.
"Unfortunately, it doesn't restrain the beast's smell." —Glissa Sunseeker
"The altar does nothing; the device is crushed under the weight of its own impurity." —Ushanti, leonin seer
Pardic barbarians didn't complain when the Order started blaming every crisis on the Cabal.
From Otaria, the sun above meets the sea below at a glittering horizon.
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
The elfhames are the closest thing to "civilization" the elves allow themselves.
"It offers you what you want, not what you need." —Braids, dementia summoner
The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
It teaches you to play dead.
"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die." —Braids, dementia summoner
For some reason, goblin fighting school isn't as crowded on day two.
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."
Throw enough goblins at any problem and it should go away. At the very least, there'll be fewer goblins.
"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits." —Dwarven forging song
"My eyes are my strongest feature."
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it." —Mystic elder
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg." —Phage the Untouchable
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg." —Phage the Untouchable
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg." —Phage the Untouchable
You are who you eat.
"Family plots are so convenient." —Cabal Patriarch
"Family plots are so convenient." —Cabal Patriarch
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
"His sacrifice shall not be forgotten. Now toss his body over there with the others." —Phage the Untouchable
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
It's so tough it can frighten itself into hiding.
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
"Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?" —Cabal grave robber
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death." —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite-size.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
Daru soldiers learned it's better to have a clean death from a sharp blade than to tangle with a goblin's rusted chains.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
"I don't rub salt in wounds. I use sulfur." —Matoc, lavamancer
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
The Patriarch dreams of vile plague.
She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock." —Scroll of Beginnings
Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield.
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
The pits have their own form of mercy.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
"The best foresight is hindsight." —Empress Llawan
Just because your eyes are open doesn't mean you're awake.
"What you made will be unmade. What you learned will be unlearned. And when you're done, you will be undone." —Ambassador Laquatus
He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it.
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"The specimen seems to be broken."
Some tides need no moon.
Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom.
Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom.
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
Only death breeds in stagnant water. —Urborg saying
The elfhames are the closest thing to "civilization" the elves allow themselves.
A beacon in the night, a dream in the fog.
Strengthened by a thousand limbs.
"A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend." —Onean sergeant
Urza protected his body well, but neglected his soul.
Tainted by a thousand fears.
It doesn't point north. It points home.
Knowledge knows no bounds.
Though lifeless, the skull still possessed a strange power over the flow of magic.
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.
These devices have been known to pull entire worlds through the Æther.
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die. —Onean children's rhyme
Its wings were only designed to be ornamental, but it learned to use them on its own.
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
"Knowledge is power." —Sir Francis Bacon, Meditationes Sacrae
Blessed by a thousand prayers.
Forged by a thousand flames.
Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
Step 1: Find your cousin. Step 2: Get your cousin in the cannon. Step 3: Find another cousin.
Woven from strands of griffin mane and pegasus tail.
"Why build a bridge that needs to be guarded?" —Elvish champion
"The Eye altering alters all." —William Blake, "The Mental Traveller"
"True power is controlling not only the hearts of your subjects, but their minds as well."
Legend has it that the world was hatched from a dingus egg.
"A good deal of tyranny goes by the name of protection." —Crystal Eastman, "Equality or Protection"
Polished by a thousand waves.
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more." —Mogg march
The heavier the load, the harder it works.
"A good lamp will light your way. A good ring will clear it." —Nervan, royal jeweler
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
"We are the hands of the great trees, reaching out to ensnare what threatens their branches." —Elvish hunter
Nature twists knots stronger than any rope.
The sun breaks, the beasts stir, and the forest awakens to stand against its enemies.
"Graceful? Yes. Beautiful? Absolutely. Harmless? Definitely not." —Fyndhorn elder
Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.
Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.
"I wouldn't stand in front of that wurm, son. 'Course, I wouldn't stand behind it neither. In fact, standing anywhere near that wurm's not much of a plan. Running, now that's a plan" —Wandering mage
To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window.
Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand.
"Why should death always have the last word?" —Llanowar druid
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
It has germinated in the earth for thousands of years. Finally it wakes to the battle's call.
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing. —Druids' saying
The song of the forest is in perfect harmony. If a single note is out of place, the elves will find its source.
"One touch of nature makes the whole world kin." —William Shakespeare, Troilus and Cressida
As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army.
Unanswered prayers are themselves answers. —Nantuko teaching
After the battle, an eerie silence gripped the forest. The losers' remains were lightly dusted with green.
Get in touch with your inner monster.
"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
No two see the same Maro.
"When the forest wants something, no mortal mind can resist her." —Maro
A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute.
"Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Some warriors walk the earth. Others are born of it.
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the Lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
Sword hilts jut from some trolls' bodies where wounds healed so fast that the weapons were trapped inside.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
Watching the spider's web —Llanowar expression meaning "focusing on the wrong thing"
Disturb a sleeping badger and the snapping of your bones will awaken the countryside.
The elves' battle cries cut paths through the Æther, guiding those who would stand in Gaea's defense.
"It is useful to be able to speak to the trees. But it is truly wondrous to be able to listen to them."
Rather than sheltering her young, the female fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
Five hundred years to grow—barely a minute to eat.
"The love of nature . . . is a furious, burning, physical greed. . . ." —Mary Webb, The House in Dormer Forest
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.
"The stories tell of a distant time when machines overran the forests, destroying everything that lived. That time will not come again."
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
"Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime."
Each pluck of the strings breaks the hold of the unnatural on the world.
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Elvish hymn
Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me."
"One day we shall walk where once was water." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
From a whisper to a roar, the call is heard by all and refused by none.
"There's never been a dwarven smith who could match the marvels that Gaea herself forges." —Elvish champion
The ground itself lends its strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.
"Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?
Most people know better. Goblins only know bigger.
"Of course you should fight fire with fire. You should fight *everything* with fire." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
War is a conflict that determines not who is right—but who is left.
"I love lightning It's my best invention since the rock." —Toggo, goblin weaponsmith
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Earth arms itself with fire.
"The first wind of ascension is Forger, burning away impurity." —Keld Triumphant
To a sabretooth, all men are mice.
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.
While armies battled across Jamuraa, beasts stalked the high places looking for victims.
"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
"Be as fast as lightning, and you will be just as deadly." —Combat trainer
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Who says lightning never strikes twice?" —Storm shaman
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
Sometimes everyone decides to go for help at the same time.
"You idiot Never let the spies mingle with the orcish regulars after completing a mission. Now we'll never get them to fight" —General Khurzog
"So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game." —General Khurzog
Ogres learn how to smash stuff even before they learn how to walk.
"The enemy has been destroyed, sir. So have the forest, the city, your palace, your dog . . ." —Keldon soldier
Tortured with magic by their masters, the moggs are enflamed by the smell of sorcery.
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do." —Selenia, dark angel
"In some cultures, elephants are ridden by those in power. I don't think a mere elephant would even be noticed in Keld." —Onean sergeant
"Catch!"
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
Bent on a quest for blood, a giant can storm through a fort's wall as if it were nothing more than a picket fence.
He's smart for a goblin. He can do two things: hit and run.
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
"What's got two arms, one wing, and no brains?" —Ghitu riddle
The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar.
The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse.
Dry grass is tinder before the spark.
"You wouldn't like me when I'm angry."
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits." —Dwarven forging song
"The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours." —Onean sergeant
In the warrior kingdom of Keld, the cats used in the hunt are prized for their tracking sense and ability to climb walls.
"When every reef is bared and every wave is dust—only then shall I rest."
After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
Fire never dies alone.
"From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do." —Balduvian tavern song
Just try taking this bull by the horns.
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it." —Mystic elder
"Expect nothing but scorn, flattery, and lies. And never turn your back on him." —Northern paladin
"The spirit of the devout is easily crushed by the loss of hope." —Fallen angel
Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak.
Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul.
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind, dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
"Rats, rats, rats Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life." —Bram Stoker, Dracula
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
You are who you eat.
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.
"The mortal world is a grove of sweet fruit, and I am ready to harvest it." —Fallen angel
A hiss before dying.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
Nothing is sacred to the rats. Everything is simply another meal.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
His mind, like his body, is made up of the swamp's flotsam.
"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy." —Keld Triumphant
No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death." —Phyrexian progress notes
A drop of humanity for a sea of power.
"Of all the tyrannies on humane kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind." —John Dryden, "The Hind and the Panther"
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
No fear. No sense. And soon, no lunch.
Which hurts more: a sword in the gut or a dagger in the back?
When you get into the swamp, the swamp gets into you.
"I can't think with all that screaming."
What wizards fear most is losing their minds.
Memories cut from the mind can cut right back.
"We do not suddenly fall on death, but advance towards it by slight degrees; we die every day." —Seneca, Epistles, trans. Gummere
"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"
On darkness feeding, in nightmares breeding.
Opportunity makes the thief. —Roman proverb
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets.
Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him.
"The horror The horror" —Joseph Conrad, Heart of Darkness
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me."
"Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead." —Cabal Patriarch
"There is no worse enemy. His passion for death doesn't just border on insanity, it wallows in it." —Southern paladin
It despises humans and squirrels and beasts and dwarves and cephalids . . . well, it despises just about everything.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
The best ideas often come from the worst minds.
They feed on the living to stay undead.
Your entire life passes before its eyes.
"Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits—that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Pit and the Pendulum"
"Kill them all and feed them to the new recruits." —Crovax, ascendant evincar
"Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death,' For exile hath more terror in his look, Much more than death." —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
"Human tenderness is simply weakness in a pretty package."
A wall built from the bodies of the enemy will never lack building material in times of war.
The bodies of its victims are the only tracks it leaves.
Think of it as a butcher knife with wings.
"Knowledge demands sacrifice."
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.
"Marit Lage lies frozen in a glacier's heart. Still her dreams take form in our world, stealing the heat from our souls." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"But high she shoots through air and light, Above all low delay, Where nothing earthly bounds her flight, Nor shadow dims her way." —Thomas Moore, "Oh that I had Wings"
When no falcons fly, beware the sky. —Femeref aphorism
"Wealth means power; the power to subdue, to crush, to exploit, the power to enslave, to outrage, to degrade." —Emma Goldman, "Anarchism"
The wise, the righteous, the mighty—the merchant feeds them all.
To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers.
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies steal jewels for theirs.
"Of course she's at the head of her class. All of her classmates have disappeared." —Tolarian renegade
"Secrets? What secrets?"
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
Keep watch only for the giants and you'll be eaten by the ants.
Master the sky and you rule everything beneath it. —Metathran saying
It's easy to believe the monster is a myth—until you feel three hundred thousand pounds of myth crashing down on your ship.
Within each device is a spark of its creator's soul. Within each sage is a lamp that awaits that spark.
"Let's go over this one more time. . . ."
"Getting people to do what you want is merely a matter of telling them what they want to hear."
It can pass through solid matter—but that doesn't mean it's harmless.
Lat-Nam wizards trade knowledge on scrolls made of magic so they can better guard against thieves and spies.
To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth.
The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins.
One footstep among many is silent. One footstep alone is deafening.
Madness and genius are separated only by degrees of success.
"Let's see . . . Mercadia, mercenary, merfolk . . . you know, I really need a better filing system."
It doesn't like having visitors . . . unless it's having them for lunch.
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.
The College of Lat-Nam is often forced to expel students whose experiments grow too risky or too cruel.
"Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow." —Aesop, Fables, trans. Jacobs
"So much for that bright idea!"
Scholars in their ivory towers call them "sharks of the sky." Scholars on the road don't call them at all.
Which is more unsettling: the roar of battle or the silence that follows?
"Cry to the sun and watch as even your tears forsake you." —Acolyte of Marit Lage
The golden rule of revenge: Do unto others what they tried to do unto you.
"I've seen my master do this a hundred times. How hard can it be?"
"You know that secret? The one that wakes you up at night in a cold sweat? The one you think no one else in the world knows? Well, guess what."
"Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once." —William Shakespeare, Julius Caesar
Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
"It is better to take what does not belong to you than to let it lie around neglected." —Mark Twain, More Maxims of Mark
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
"I don't like to think of myself as a pirate. I'm more like a stimulator of the local economy."
Jamuraan farmers fear three things above all else: droughts, floods, and hornclaws.
Though those who study are as many as the hairs on an ox, those who succeed are as rare as unicorns' horns. —Chinese proverb
In Mercadia City, loyalties extend only as far as your purse can stretch.
"Returne from whence ye came. . . ." —Edmund Spenser, The Faerie Queene
"To empty your mind is to fill your grave." —Lat-Nam teaching
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
"Words—so innocent and powerless are they, as standing in a dictionary; how potent for good and evil they become to one who knows how to combine them!" —Nathaniel Hawthorne
Pray that it doesn't seek the safety of your lungs.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol." —Serra
Sharper than wind, lighter than air.
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains." —Onean scout
Most soldiers think of the sword as a weapon. In the hands of Zho monks, swords are also the strongest of shields.
Sometimes the wings of fallen dragons refuse to give up the sky.
Its eye the glaring sun, its cry the keening wind.
The key to winning any fight is simply staying alive.
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.
"I am bound to all my children. I share in their joys, I rage at their injuries."
"We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately." —Benjamin Franklin
When she flies above the good, they consider themselves blessed. When she flies above the wicked, they consider themselves dead.
She reads the battlefield like a map, always seeking the shortest route to victory.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face. —Somali proverb
"The peasants labor for my profit. I approve."
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"Over the silver mountains, Where spring the nectar fountains, There will I kiss The bowl of bliss; And drink my everlasting fill. . . ." —Sir Walter Raleigh, "The Pilgrimage"
The land will never betray those who gave their lives for it.
"Trust me—the walls have more than just ears." —Orcish spy
"Let me redeem my brothers both from death." —William Shakespeare, Titus Andronicus
Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory.
"We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood. . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day." —Peach Garden Oath
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
The future isn't sacred, but its speaker is.
Fighting for the right reason is itself a source of strength.
Her heart holds the pain of every soldier she's ever healed.
A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again.
Made from its wearer's hopes, the mask ensures that those hopes will be fulfilled.
A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.
"It is not a choice I make, to have this guard. It is the choice of my people, and my duty to them." —Oracle en-Vec
"The day of Spirits; my soul's calm retreat / Which none disturb" —Henry Vaughan, "The Night"
The turning of the tide always begins with one soldier's decision to head back into the fray.
Each victory adds a new verse.
"Precision is frequently more valuable than force."
They fletch their arrows with the feathers of angels.
To outrace the griffin —Kipamu expression meaning "to do the impossible"
"He can split a marshfly in two from halfway across the range." —Onean sergeant
"Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens." —Mystic elder
"Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light."
It does not wear a crown or sit on a throne of gold, but those who have witnessed its power hail it nonetheless.
Even an enemy is a valuable resource.
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member.
A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made that mistake again.
Where air meets water, fish meets talon.
"Before my eyes was a horrible monster, worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous. . . . Its eight arms, or rather feet, fixed to its head . . . were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair." —Jules Verne, Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea, trans. Lewis
Knights fight for honor and mercenaries fight for gold. The militia fights for hearth and home.
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
"Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed."
A song of life soars over fields of blood.
Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone.
2003 Vintage Championship Winner
Those who bring nothing to the temple take nothing away.
"Hold that thought." —Pemmin, Riptide survivor
When opened, it erases entire landscapes from minds and maps.
The end of evolution.
When they land on you, all you can think about is tearing them off.
It drinks fatigue.
Tall as a tree and probably related.
Once again, Kamahl felt the full force of the Mirari's pull, but he had learned much since the last time.
At home among the swaying, supple branches of the treetops, some scouts live their entire lives never touching ground.
With natural laws abandoned, excess thrives.
Ancient carvings in the trees of Krosa glow with power once again.
When it walks through Krosa, trees step aside, leaves take wing, and the ground shudders.
It turns prey into predator.
"Sit."
Its blood is life. Its body is growth.
Nature has forgotten its own rules.
They say the forest has eyes. They never mention its claws.
"No good will come of this."
The ooze has always been. The ooze will always be.
The best leaders are made by their followers.
Its food just got a lot smaller and its stomach a lot bigger.
The grounds of the Riptide Project are now populated only by slivers, broken beakers, and the lonely screeching of gulls.
Dragon fire melts any instrument designed to measure it.
It's the only kind of shower goblins will tolerate.
Goblins don't know much about physics, but they know lots about falling and rocks.
Only when the anger passed did Varv realize he had burned down his home, destroyed his weapons, and killed his friend Furt.
When the world is consumed by chaos, the skilled and the foolish are on equal footing.
They poured from the Skirk Ridge like lava, burning and devouring everything in their path.
"Fire, aim, ready!"
The destruction he causes is nothing next to the chaos in his mind.
After the Skirk Ridge collapsed, the goblins erected a system of ropes and pulleys to hold up what was left.
"Perhaps extra heads would have served them better." —Foothill guide
"You wouldn't like me when I'm angry."
"We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal."
"You'll bend to my will—with or without your precious sanity."
Barbarians weave its spurs into ceremonial charms to proclaim their hardiness in battle.
The single-mindedness of a zombie, the cunning of an assassin.
Those who don't learn from their deaths are destined to repeat them.
The symbols are spread throughout Aphetto, marking sites where minions of the Raven Guild and the Cabal can seek refuge.
It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men.
Cabal initiates enter training full of hopes and fears. They graduate with neither.
"Finally, a use for that head of yours." —Braids, dementia summoner
It eagerly gobbles up bits of its own rotting flesh as they fall to the swampy ground.
Where the nefashu pass, blood rolls like a silk carpet.
"Looks bad. I don't know if he'll make it through the night." —Cabal cleric
The vapors infiltrate every crevice, poison every lung, and snuff out every life.
The pain of a lifetime—every scrape, illness, and bruise—condensed into a single moment.
"You wear that shell as a mask. Now it's your coffin." —Cabal cleric
Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky.
Silent as fog and relentless as plague, it is wet, creeping death.
The hand of death recognizes its own.
Stinking of rot, it leaps between gravestones in search of its next meal.
"Hear only the Cabal's voice. See only the Cabal's way. Speak only the Cabal's word." —Cabal mantra
Some days it's better to stay inside.
"If I wanted your opinion, I'd have told you what it was." —Pemmin, Riptide survivor
"Once I was human. Now I am far more."
"Limitless power is glorious until you gain limitless understanding." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
The Raven Guild soars on winds of unease.
If it's not one thing, it's another.
"Wait, it'll come to me in a minute."
The ties that bind can also strangle.
"Maybe next time."
The aven came to fear the forest's clawing branches, but the watchers quickly renewed their courage.
"The ignorant fear change; the wise use it as a weapon."
"I only return what rightly belongs to another."
"The light of the Ancestor will scour the taint of darkness from the land."
Otaria's last defense against the wave of chaos threatening to engulf it.
"When you have drunk your fill, pass the cup to others who thirst."
"Rise once more, so you may continue to destroy our enemies." —Karona, false god
Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory.
Those who most feel guilt don't need to, while those who most need to feel guilt never do. —Order proverb
"Whoever survives the first blow lives to land the second."
He's desperate to hold back the future because he has seen it.
"When the skies are filled with flames, the brave shall step forward to quench them." —Order prophecy
It was midnight on the Daru Plains, yet it seemed the sun was rising.
His victories speak for him.
He lifts the spirits of his people so they may descend in wrath upon their foes.
His enemies' trickery and deceit only fuel his righteous anger.
"Most insects have been drawn to the Mirari. But all that remain in Wirewood are under my care."
"Your words are meaningless. The rustling of leaves is the only language that makes any sense."
As the Mirari's mutating effects grew out of control, centaurs and druids fled—but insects swarmed closer.
"Elves and beasts are tied together, and I am the knot that binds them."
Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship.
The Mirari pulses in his veins.
"Her voice is wilderness, savage and pure." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
"It would take another apocalypse to stop the slivers now." —Riptide Project researcher
The directors of the Riptide Project wanted instant results on the sliver experiments. They got their wish.
The first aven scout squad returned from Krosa with disturbing stories. The second returned with disturbing casualties.
"New links are being added to the food chain on a daily basis." —Riptide Project researcher
A herd of one.
Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities.
Mutated elves wondered if this was their final form, or if it was just another step.
"I lost one home when Yavimaya was destroyed. I will not lose another."
Within weeks, more slivers nested in Otaria than ever existed on Rath.
Lucky victims get run over. Unlucky victims get run through.
Lorians treat trees and prey the same way: by ripping them limb from limb.
"The harder we press forward, the harder Krosa pushes us back." —Aven scout
Once the goblins thought about it, they preferred being atop a slateback to being in front of, behind, or underneath one.
"I order you to volunteer."
"I treat each day as your last."
"The Skirk Ridge has many wonderful things to discover—like escape routes." —Foothill guide
As malleable as molten steel, but as dangerous as the finished blade.
The goblins tracked the hystrodon with much stealth and cunning. Then they were eaten with much pain and yelling.
"Her voice is disaster, painful and final." —Matoc, lavamancer
Once they get the scent, there is no escape.
"Throw rocks at 'em! Throw spears at 'em! Throw Furt at 'em!"
Daru soldiers learned it's better to have a clean death from a sharp blade than to tangle with a goblin's rusted chains.
Giant-sized body. Goblin-sized brain.
Most goblins leave behind a wake of destruction. A few goblins take one with them.
"Did you know that wood burns even better than rocks?" —Toggo, goblin weaponsmith
The more victims he kills, the more likely he is to get the right one.
"How do you stop a raptor from charging? No, seriously! Help!" —Blarg, goblin jester
The Mirari burns in his heart.
"Craghorns experience a wide range of emotions: rage, fury, anger . . ." —Foothill guide
The least popular goblins get the outer caves.
After breaking free from the Riptide Project, the slivers quickly adapted to life on Otaria—much to the dismay of life on Otaria.
Measure its determination by the screams of its prey.
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.
"The Cabal and the Order really aren't that different. After all, we are both empowered by faith."
It doesn't need to use its venom—it just needs you to know it can.
"Sure, I've seen agents of the Cabal here and there. Well, not here, and certainly not in any of the sliver labs. Oh dear, I've said too much." —Apprentice researcher
They pick at the remains of the city's corpse.
The Mirari festers in its flesh.
Plague and death wrapped in one convenient package.
A cry of pain as it enters this world. A chorus of screams as it leaves.
"Her voice is damnation, unyielding and certain." —Phage the Untouchable
"Goblins won't betray their own kind for any price. They'll do it for a very specific price." —Phage the Untouchable
"A single dedicated mind can bring about the greatest destruction. That, or goblins—goblins work too."
It oozes death from every pore.
It strikes at your soul, heedless of your prayers.
Death is a secret he is willing to share.
Cabal clerics serve two masters: their patriarch and their god.
"Death couldn't contain the slivers. What made us think we could?" —Riptide Project researcher
"Their blood is the nectar that nourishes the Cabal." —Phage the Untouchable
New insights yield new senses.
"Species XR17 feeds upon the mental energies of its victims. This explains why the goblins remain unaffected." —Riptide Project researcher
Once the last few slivers the Riptide Project controlled were dead, there was nothing to keep the island from being completely overrun.
It wants you to be its chum.
Those who lead others to wisdom become the wisest themselves.
Though a completely artificial species, primocs are a natural fit for the skies of Otaria.
It may wear your face, but its mind is its own.
Taking the form of a junior researcher, the first sliver slipped out of Riptide.
To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth.
"You cannot fight the storm."
"I have no need of a map. The very continent itself guides my way."
The Mirari flares in his mind.
Many wizards came to the Riptide Project hoping to return home with answers. Most, however, wouldn't return home at all.
"Her voice is insight, piercing and true." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
Some spies seek clarity. Others seek transparency.
Pathmages can open doors that aren't even there.
Their grieving faces tell far more than a list of casualties ever could.
"Her voice is justice, clear and relentless." —Akroma, angelic avenger
In the wretched depths of the Grand Coliseum, his soul shines like a single torch blazing in the night.
"Now that I have your attention, perhaps I can tell you of the Order."
The first wave of slivers perished from the Riptide wizards' magic. The second wave shrugged off their spells like water.
"What cage would you rather be inside of than out?" —Daru riddle
His outer calm belies his inner fury.
The Mirari glows in her eyes.
Overcoming extinction has only made the slivers more determined to live.
"Every moment has its own savior."
"I feed my hatred to the righteous and they join my crusade." —Akroma, angelic avenger
"It is not yet time."
The slivers would survive, even at the expense of every other creature on Otaria.
"It's easy to lose sight of hope until you gaze out from my vantage point."
"We all borrowed life from the Ancestor to exist in this world. Today, I repay that debt."
Redeemers rise with the sun, and the spirits of the people rise with them.
Akroma asked for only one thing from her troops: unwavering, unconditional loyalty.
"No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
Never underestimate the power of overwhelming stupidity in overwhelming numbers.
Bears get vicious when they don't sleep. This one hasn't slept in ages.
Slivers don't learn. They just know.
If insects could talk, the world would be deafened.
Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them.
If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?
His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars.
I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg. —Phage the Untouchable
It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly-they know they cannot be caught.
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk. —Karn, silver golem
The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it.
Itself a product of Ixidor's tortured psyche, the chisel brings his darkest dreams to life.
Its lock changes to fit each key.
"Instinct is undaunted by terror, unchained by logic. It is the path from which all other paths diverge." —Volume V, The Book of Life
"She is truly Wirewood's child now." —Elvish refugee
"Though you may leave this haven we have found, may our strength never leave you."
The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back.
"The land belongs to nature as far as our eyes can see. The higher we climb, the more we can see."
"Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many."
Krosa's distorted groves bear strange fruit.
Mulch is the fabric of life in the forest. Plants live in it, they die in it, and then they become part of it, feeding countless generations to come.
The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts.
Kamahl left the violence of his former life behind him, but he still believes in the power of muscle.
No matter your strength, the Krosan Forest is stronger. No matter your speed, the Wirewood Forest is faster.
The Mirari twisted all that lived in the Krosan Forest into gross mockeries of their former selves.
The safety of the village depends on the beast thinking with its stomach.
The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects.
The elves arriving in Wirewood had no homes, let alone weapons, but they knew that the forest would always provide.
The insects found a meal in the carrion of the beast's prey. The beast found a spiffy new hairstyle.
No one in Wirewood understands what is happening. They just know it's unnatural—and coming from Krosa.
Its voice crackles with the hum of a thousand wings beating at once.
Most creatures in the Krosan Forest feared the Mirari's power. A few fed upon it.
He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits.
The only thing that flies over the Krosan Forest is the wind.
Wirewood's beasts didn't seem to mind when the elves moved in. In fact, they hardly noticed them underfoot.
"All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive." —Elvish refugee
The biggest difference between a victory and a massacre is which side you're on.
"From here, let the world be reborn."
The blood of Krosa turns rational beings into primal forces.
It emerges from the mists only to feed.
You know it's coming when you hear the distant thunder. You know where it's been when you see the path of broken trees.
When it walked, it altered geography. When it bellowed, it changed the weather.
As Krosa unleashed the peace in Kamahl, he unleashed the fury in Krosa.
"My mind has changed. My strength has not."
The Mirari's echoes rang in the scouts' minds long after they had returned from the Krosan Forest.
"Channel your vitality through me."
Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns.
"The wise learn from successes as well as mistakes."
"My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell."
"Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all."
"The stories tell of a distant time when machines overran the forests, destroying everything that lived. That time will not come again."
"Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
In harsh times, the strongest currency is cooperation.
"Old home never forgotten, new home ours forever."
"Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here."
"Life, be my shield."
The Mirari called to the centaurs, and all who heard it were forever changed.
Every creature of the forest has a name, and she knows them all.
"I have seen life's purpose, and now it is my own." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
Anywhere else they would be hunted for their skins, but in Wirewood, they are safe.
"Passions can't be shackled by laws or mastered with logic. The choice is freedom or death." —Volume IV, The Book of Fire
"Darius?" "Yeah?" "There's a goblin sneaking up on you." "So?" "Just sayin'."
Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective.
Efforts to use them as spies failed when they kept reporting to the enemy.
Pardic barbarians didn't complain when the Order started blaming every crisis on the Cabal.
After a few painful experiences, goblins learned not to pick their noses around the beasts.
"Wait 'til Toggo sees this"
"If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?"
"I like goblins. They make funny little popping sounds when they die." —Braids, dementia summoner
He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way.
"I love lightning! It's my best invention since the rock." —Toggo, goblin weaponsmith
Its only predators are the elements.
Zemoo found out the hard way that "inflammable" and "flammable" mean the same thing.
In the smoldering ashes of Shiv, a few dragons strive to rebuild their native land. The rest seek any opportunity to restore the broken pride of their race.
"Release chaos with me"
"Some solve problems by thinking and talking. Others use rocks." —Toggo, goblin weaponsmith
To his surprise, Furt discovered that the strange creatures were not at all like bugs.
When the ground is saturated with mana, even the lightest footstep can bring it to the surface.
Options will cost you, but a lack of them will cost you even more.
Skirk Ridge had survived earthquakes, mudslides, and meteor showers. Then the goblins moved in.
"Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once." —Matoc, lavamancer
Only the Cabal could make a fight to the death more deadly.
Hot blood washes away cold reason.
For some reason, goblin fighting school isn't as crowded on day two.
"Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled."
The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly."
"The good news is, we figured out how the wand works. The bad news is, we figured out how the wand works."
Throw enough goblins at any problem and it should go away. At the very least, there'll be fewer goblins.
"Life is too short for something like a hunk of rock to get in my way."
A powerful mage created the roost to guard a portal between the planes. The mage is long gone, but dragons still keep watch at the gate.
Goblins resolve disputes by splitting everything straight down the middle.
"Passion, fire my heart."
Goblins prize its hide for building rock sled runners.
It can kill you with three arms tied behind its back.
Wizards fought over the stone to exploit its power. Goblins fight over it because it's shiny.
There are two ways to resolve puzzling situations: thoughtful contemplation or force. After thoughtful contemplation, most barbarians choose force.
Their skeletons can be found all over Skirk Ridge, tangled in each other's horns.
It has two kinds of droppings, neither of which is particularly pleasant.
"Is it just me, or does that meteor have teeth?"
The only prince inside this frog is the one it ate.
"Terror corrupts order and paralyzes instinct." —Volume III, The Book of Decay
Such sacrilege turns blinding grief into blinding rage.
"My eyes are my strongest feature."
It just obeys you. It doesn't like you.
As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering.
When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head.
Few who cross Phage have the chance to repeat the mistake.
"If you can't pay your gambling debts, you just might be tomorrow's main attraction at the Grand Coliseum."
"How cute. Does it do any other tricks?" —Braids, dementia summoner
"Surrender your soul to me."
"I can't hear them scream, but at least I don't have to listen to them beg." —Phage the Untouchable
"My priests swore loyalty to the Cabal not until death, but beyond it." —Cabal Patriarch
The grim business of the Coliseum casts long shadows.
No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown.
It's always hungry, yet easily sated.
"We have ways to make you talk, but you have nothing interesting to say."
"Family plots are so convenient." —Cabal Patriarch
The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace. —Nantuko teaching
"It is from Phage that this evil springs, and to her it shall return." —Akroma, angelic avenger
It's drawn to the scent of screaming.
The Cabal never expected its creations to create servants of their own.
Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets.
Cabal clerics don't heal the sick—they heal the dead.
In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed.
It wasn't as much a strategy as a dim instinct to drown their prey.
"I do unto others as others have done unto me." —Phage the Untouchable
The most terrifying zombies are those with just a hint of their old selves left.
Proper burial is a luxury Otarians can no longer afford.
"His sacrifice shall not be forgotten. Now toss his body over there with the others." —Phage the Untouchable
The lantern he carried did not light his way—it signaled his approach.
The Cabal breeds many things for the pit fights, but it never breeds compassion.
Few Cabal fighters fear death. They fear what follows it.
"Darkness, hide my fear."
"In its natural habitat, the goblin is stupid, yet devious. Now it's stupid, devious, and powerful."
"You are weak. I am strong. The protocol is obvious."
Nothing comes together as easily as it comes apart.
Even the most virtuous person is only one secret away from being owned by the Cabal.
Phage became both executioner and savior, helping others to the same rebirth she had found.
Aphetto's swamps are alive with the dead.
"The Cabal mocks the natural order. For its minions, death is just a pause between duties." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
"Be logical in all things. Do not allow instinct or passion to cloud your mind." —Volume II, The Book of Insight
"It's hard to fight on an empty mind."
At that point, the wizards' argument got a lot uglier.
"It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell."
"My vengeance will drown my enemies as my storms drown the desert." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
From their mountain aeries, aven scholars see far more than the distant horizon.
"I've got everything you'd ever need right here. Just give me some time to find it."
The wizard consulted the Riptide Project about how to further his research. He wasn't prepared for what they told him.
"I gave it two choices: life in the lab or death in the hunt."
"Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges."
"The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key."
The Riptide Project was perhaps the only school devoted to preventing the spread of knowledge.
"Open your mind to me."
Fellowship, the fourth myth of reality: As the tides of war shift, so do loyalties.
Conviction, the third myth of reality: Only those who seek the truth can be deceived.
Familiarity, the first myth of reality: What you know the best, you observe the least.
Trust, the fifth myth of reality: Every truth holds the seed of betrayal.
Devotion, the second myth of reality: The faithful are most hurt by the objects of their faith.
Strength may win the fight, but style wins the crowd.
"Next time, don't bother."
"Some dreams should not come to be."
"Reality has exiled me. I am no longer bound by its laws."
"One wizard is a suspect. Two wizards are a conspiracy." —Elvish refugee
When Otarians learned not to trust wizards, the wizards learned to adapt.
"Attempts to revive this ancient species have not been entirely successful, but results indicate potential for future development." —Riptide Project researcher
"My past holds only pain and loss. I will conquer it by creating the perfect future." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
"Don't become so enthralled with magic that you forget you can fly without it."
"Shaping reality is simply a matter of knowing where to apply pressure." —Ixidor, reality sculptor
"Show weakness to hide your strength."
"Like the seas, the Æther is fickle and ever-changing. If we can control one, we can master the other." —Riptide Project director
"I said 'pick his brain,' not 'tear off his head.'" —Riptide Project researcher
"Wisdom, clear my eyes."
The most valuable commodity in the pits is a way out.
"I'll leave subtlety to the rich."
Some things are better left unknown.
He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow.
Aphetto con artists started working in pairs to make it less likely they'd be the victims of con artists.
He brews trouble.
Most refugees left their ancestral homes behind when they came to Otaria. A few decided to bring them along.
"We help our Southern Order comrades as much as we can. But the Cabal's insidious influence spreads, dividing our forces and leaving new arrivals to fend for themselves." —Commander Eesha
"The faithful don't succumb to terror, nor are they ruled by passion. They adhere to order, for order is life." —Volume I, The Book of Faith
His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars.
The tall, reedy grass of the Daru Plains rustles loudly in the winds, a perfect cover for any ambush.
So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it.
"We lay our dead to rest in a beautiful bed, in hopes that the Ancestor will think it a fit cradle for the next life." —Mystic elder
"You may fight if I deem your cause worthy."
"Win together, die alone."
"Those who live by the sword will die by the sword. I choose to do neither."
"Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand." —Akroma, angelic avenger
Even those born to battle could only lay their blades at Akroma's feet.
"A richer people could give more but they could never give as much."
"Our noblest thoughts are our very first and our very last."
Newcomers to Otaria find themselves at the bottom of the heap. In the pits, they at least have the chance to climb atop a heap of bodies.
Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness.
"We will force the Cabal into their own pits"
"I trust what I make for myself. Do you trust more what is made for you by another?"
"There is no greater burden than choosing who to save." —Kamahl, druid acolyte
They're trained in the art of pressing their luck.
Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air.
"Our death-arrows flew in high arcs towards the aven. And then . . . nothing." —Coliseum guard
Cabal spies trying to follow the Order's movements are constantly frustrated by tracks that stop dead.
Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished.
"Everyone deserves a chance to live. My job is to make sure they get it."
The turning of the tide always begins with one soldier's decision to head back into the fray.
"Like any pests, goblins must be repelled quickly or they multiply."
"Share your devotion with me."
"Your graves will lie beneath my final nest."
Dread was as foreign to her as the landscape ahead.
"The truth will outshine all lies."
"Only on the battlefield can we repay all the Order has given us."
"I will wield the stone of my homeland as though it were the fists of the Ancestor."
Although the Order frowned upon his preparations for the pits, behind closed doors most saw the fights as a necessary evil.
Success is one part inspiration, nine parts desperation.
"Honor, guide my step."
"The rabble likes them. Make sure they win, then book them for tomorrow." —Cabal Patriarch
Enlightenment comes most swiftly at life's end.
Together they could hit anything between the heavens and the horizon.
"There's no 'I' in 'team,' but there's a 'we' in 'weapon.'"
"Death never stops to rest. Neither can we."
"Every question has a proper answer. Every soul has a proper place."
He represents what little pride the Order has left.
Every day, Order clerics contain as much of the Mirari's energy as possible, hoping to delay Otaria's demise.
"The hum of the universe is never off-key." —Mystic elder
"We have faced horrors of war and terrors beyond imagining. We will overcome the uncertainties of this new life."
Ixidor had only to imagine their ruin and Akroma made it so.
The clerics saw her as a divine gift. She saw them only as allies in her war against Phage.
Only death breeds in stagnant water. —Urborg saying
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
It teaches you to play dead.
It teaches you to play dead.
It teaches you to play dead.
He exercises his right to bear arms.
In the Krosan Forest, you've got to keep an eye out for the squirrels.
Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians.
Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians.
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.
Faster than a cobra's bite.
Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.
Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.
A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout. —Yavimaya saying
"Anyone can snap her fingers and yank a soul. I prefer to kill creatively." —Braids, dementia summoner
It's so tough it can frighten itself into hiding.
"How could someone so small cause so much trouble?" —Nomad sentry
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
He wished for growth, but not for a way to control it.
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more." —Scroll of Beginnings
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more." —Scroll of Beginnings
The calm comes after the storm.
Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
When you sink a lot of ships, it's easy to find sunken treasure.
"Eri phar phesta … um, phistor … er, phistara …"
"Remove their power, and their will to fight will follow." —Tolarian wizard
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.
"You aren't invited."
Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield.
"You aren't invited."
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay
The pits have their own form of mercy.
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
Teferi wanted no part of Urza's battle plans, but both agreed the Phyrexian portal must be closed.
"The best foresight is hindsight." —Empress Llawan
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
Some minds are more open than others.
He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it.
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"Fear this no more!"
"I'd be happy to stop contradicting you, Urza, just as soon as you start being right." —Bo Levar, planeswalker
The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.
"I'd be happy to stop contradicting you, Urza, just as soon as you start being right." —Bo Levar, planeswalker
A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
"The earth shook, the sky rained fire, and it seemed the world was ending." —Benalish refugee
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere." —Scroll of Beginnings
The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever.
In the heavy hush of Krosa, drawing on mana is like ringing a dinner bell.
It's so tough it can frighten itself into hiding.
"True strength comes from within. The false promise of unnatural power only incurs Krosa's wrath." —Seton, centaur druid
If an anurid's lucky, it'll find a warm tunnel for bedtime. If a wurm's lucky, it'll find a warm anurid for breakfast.
"When you live for others, you live for yourself."
"How could someone so small cause so much trouble?" —Nomad sentry
The Mirari's magic transformed the Krosan Forest—and its inhabitants.
The armies paused, silent, as the warriors reflected on the sunsets of their youth.
The hippo grows wings to fight the condor. —Nantuko teaching
"Our unity unmasks your deceit."
Your past is a map to where you will go. —Nantuko teaching
He wished for growth, but not for a way to control it.
"The Krosan Forest lives, and druids are its seeds." —Seton, centaur druid
"Why waste time creating weapons? Nature provides us with all we need." —Centaur warrior
"In the end, the same soil lies atop the field, within the mountain, and under the sea."
"When the Ancestor saw the cruelty her human children were capable of, Her fury shook the world. From this outburst sprang the warthogs." —Nomad myth
"First through the Riftstone was Genesis—and the world was lifeless no more." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Our unity renews our strength."
Sometimes the healers need healing.
"We use only what we need—but in times of strife, our need becomes great." —Centaur warrior
He provides a safe path to nowhere.
"If our foes will not listen to words, perhaps hooves and claws will make them take notice." —Seton, centaur druid
Nature's strength outlives the strong.
"'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered." —Scroll of Beginnings
Anurids have the problem of airborne invaders licked.
When it croaks, so do you.
As dust swept out, vultures swept in.
No circle has a beginning, but many have foreseeable ends.
The epidemic insanity had a lasting effect on certain barbarians—but no one noticed.
Freed from their chains, these dwarves are bound only by honor.
"My brother and I both come from Balthor's forge. Kamahl has a temper of fire. I have a temper of steel."
As a youth, Kamahl took one for a pet. His hair has yet to grow back.
"I don't rub salt in wounds. I use sulfur." —Matoc, lavamancer
Dwarves bring poor coal to market, use good coal in their homes, and throw their best coal away.
Barbarians invented the blaze of glory. Dwarves perfected it.
"Drill the planet, it's no trouble: Mining granite, making rubble." —Dwarven drilling song
His battle cry unleashes an avalanche of dwarves.
She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it.
"Even the threat of power has power." —Jeska, warrior adept
"Enough!"
The wizard's spellbook was full of burning questions.
"Out of my way!"
Dwarves may teach at the speed of stone, but their results are solid.
"For its time as a mortal, Anger chose a shell of boiling rock." —Scroll of Beginnings
"That does it—I quit" —Cabal grave robber
The mind sings, though at times it sings a dirge.
"You call that a nightmare?" —Braids, dementia summoner
"As the portal closed, Filth oozed through. The stench of evil followed it in." —Scroll of Beginnings
Rats come in one amount: too many.
He wished for power, but not for the longevity to abuse it.
"Ah, a faceshredder. Very rare. Nearly unstoppable. Good luck" —Cabal instructor
He remembers enough of his life to weep for what he has lost.
Chainer's admirers keep his dreams alive.
Spawned by mages emulating the insane.
"The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air." —Scroll of Beginnings
Cephalids specialize in lose-lose situations.
"Nature's been fired. The oceans are under new management." —Ambassador Laquatus
"The best foresight is hindsight." —Empress Llawan
"Breaking it would be about four hundred years bad luck." —Nomad sentry
Some minds are more open than others.
"The first time was amusing, but now you're getting tiresome."
"I see their moral dilemmas. I see their raw courage. I see their self-sacrifice. I see our victory."
Scholars possess such lofty knowledge that it shouldn't be surprising when they fall.
"Would you abandon your past to save your future?" —Ambassador Laquatus
"What you made will be unmade. What you learned will be unlearned. And when you're done, you will be undone." —Ambassador Laquatus
Magical or not, it's still a cloud.
He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it.
Cephalids shrink from the harsh glare of scrutiny.
Cephalids don't police people. They police loyalties.
"I cover the land with blankets and it sleeps."
"The cracks widened, the shell crumbled, and Valor spread throughout the land." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Only the Ancestor should be revered." —Mystic heretic
"The desert asked the Ancestor for children, and the antelope were born." —Nomad myth
"If we have learned nothing else, we have learned to survive." —Mystic elder
"Our forebears once flew like this—carefree, needing nothing but a warm nest and a full belly. Our intellect may be more burden than blessing." —Commander Eesha
"Our unity humbles our foes."
It marks the border between here and hereafter.
A symbol of hope for hopeless times.
"Our unity conquers all fears."
Webs of illusion unravel in the light of truth.
"Our unity revives our hopes."
Nomads weave tales thicker than tapestries.
"Never underestimate our enemy's strength, brutality, . . . or stupidity." —Commander Eesha
"May the Ancestor strengthen my hand and guide my blade." —Nomad war prayer
She wished for nobility, but not for a nation to honor it.
"Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere." —Scroll of Beginnings
"Raze the body. Raise the soul." —Mystic elder
"War glides on the simplest updrafts while peace struggles against hurricane winds. It is the way of the world. It must change."
"Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens." —Mystic elder
"Power often costs too high a price." —Commander Eesha
"We have been victims of treachery, of the Cabal, and of our own ambitions. No more." —Commander Eesha
"My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved."
Experience is a good teacher, not a kind one.
Empowered by generations of strength.
Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria.
Seton dreams of life renewed.
"It's a slithering, coldblooded menace. I've gotta respect that." —Braids, dementia summoner
Krosan druids do not fear death, for they know that nature will only prosper from their passing.
"Finesse is no match for brute force." —Seton, centaur druid
None can find what hasn't been lost. —Nantuko teaching
He wears his scars like badges of honor, warning his foes that he's not easily defeated.
It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite size.
Krosa's topmost bottom feeder.
"A good whack on the head usually has the same effect." —Kamahl, pit fighter
Its material may not be precious, but the minds it protects are.
He gets to the point right away.
"We've been taught that strength is everything. So how can an alliance with the strongest be a betrayal?"
Otaria's epidemic of insanity didn't affect certain barbarians—but no one noticed.
"Trickery can't defeat raw power." —Matoc, lavamancer
Its blast can fuse armor to bone, leaving skeletons that glint brightly in the sun.
He doesn't slow until his spear is weighted with corpses.
"Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper."
Captive dwarves always regain their freedom, either through escape or through a desperate, fiery death.
Kamahl dreams of storms of fire.
"The longer it's caged, the madder it gets." —Firecat handler
It adds injury to injury.
"We offer power to anyone willing to take it. Sadly, few are unburdened enough by their prejudices to accept." —Cabal surgeon
"I like to think of him as concentrated barbarian." —Kamahl, pit fighter
"I've seen lightning move slower." —Nomad sentry
Some zombies are natural-reborn leaders.
Chainer's insanity touched nearly every living thing—including viruses.
"Don't let your mind wander—it might not come back." —Braids, dementia summoner
Don't confuse lunacy with courage.
The Patriarch dreams of vile plague.
Chainer's madness personified, it exists only to slaughter the innocent.
Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal.
Braids dreams of dark rebirth.
It knows what makes you tick. It knows how to make the ticking stop.
"If the Nantuko only knew what awaits them beyond death, they would abandon all they hold dear." —Cabal Patriarch
"They appreciate my handiwork. I hear their joy in every scream." —Chainer, dementia master
The crowd roared, the fighters bled, and the dead piled high in the pits. Only the Cabal could win.
When you get into the swamp, the swamp gets into you.
Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul.
Chainer dreams of ultimate knowledge.
The pits have their own form of mercy.
Since it eats only carrion, sometimes it needs to make some from scratch.
"Just what I need—more competition." —Cabal grave robber
"Clerics give up when their patients die. Can I help it if I'm more compassionate?"
"Each syllable chills your veins. Each word rattles your mind." —Cabal Patriarch
Laquatus dreams of seizing control.
Just because your eyes are open doesn't mean you're awake.
"I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination."
An army from a soldier, a flock from a bird, a school from a fish . . . a profit from an atrocity.
"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
The question strained his sanity. The answer snapped it in half.
"The only kind of water that should fly through the air is rain." —Kamahl, pit fighter
In front of every strong leader is a pool of loyal bodyguards.
"My enemies will forget everything but their anguish." —Ambassador Laquatus
"The specimen seems to be broken."
"Magic is like the tide—both ebb, both flow, and both serve my whims." —Empress Llawan
The cautious are wary of their enemies. The wise are also wary of their friends.
It's easy to tell the difference between the devious cephalids and the trustworthy ones. The trustworthy ones are dead.
The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained.
"Power, gold, crackers—every bird has its price." —Chainer, dementia master
Some tides need no moon.
"He smiles with poisoned lips." —Empress Llawan
Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom.
The light of reason follows them even into battle.
Don't mistake isolation for safety.
"How to punish the guilty is up to the Ancestor. Deciding who merits such punishment is up to me."
"Inhale life. Exhale pain." —Mystic elder
They soar, and the mystics follow.
"The spirits of the righteous shall rise into the sky. Even dirtwalkers will fly like aven." —Major Teroh
"I am the holy wind that shall avenge the Cabal's victims."
By definition, madness ends in one of two ways: clarity . . . or death.
The very skies seethe with the aven's hatred for the Cabal.
Bitter vengeance never glowed so bright nor sang so sweet.
Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.
"If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts." —Sir Francis Bacon, The Advancement of Learning
"A wisp of life remains in the undergloom of Death; a visible form, though no heart beats within it." —Homer, The Iliad, trans. Fitzgerald
"It is vain to look for a defense against lightning." —Publius Syrus, Maxim 835, trans. Lyman
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philospher
Duty brings them together. Loyalty keeps them together.
Stars shine, winds blow, dragons rage.
When wurms aren't hungry —Nantuko expression meaning "never"
When elephants thunder, death is lightning quick.
The most battle-worn zombies are equal parts stitch and stench.
It's surprising how well cute and vicious go together.
"'Tis a shame, in such a tempest, to have but one anchor." —Laurence Sterne, Tristram Shandy
When good men die their goodness does not perish, / But lives though they are gone. —Euripides, Termenidae, trans. Morgan
As if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it. —Herman Melville, Moby Dick
One pain is lessened by another's anguish. —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
Everything in Nature contains all the powers of Nature. - Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Compensation"
The chill, to him who breathed it, drew / Down with his blood, till all his heart was cold. —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Idyls of the King
Fire is the test of gold; adversity of strong men. - Seneca, "On Providence," trans. Basara
"The fortress is not what it seems." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Deal with the spawn of Phyrexia cautiously; only with time may we control them." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Deal with the spawn of Phyrexia cautiously; only with time may we control them." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alient place." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alient place." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a Spider without an appetite." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the Lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"This was quite possibly the least pleasant occurrence on the entire expedition." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Here in Fyndhorn, the goddess Freyalise is generous to her children." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"They're a hardy bunch, but I'd still bet that they just slept through the worst of the cold times." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Embrace the storm. Its voice shall echo within you, and its fire shall become your touch!" —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"Embrace the storm. Its voice shall echo within you, and its fire shall become your touch!" —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"Let the past be the past. Do not call up that which you cannot put down. Destroy that which destroyed us, so long ago." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Leaves more room for the big ones to fight in, you know." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good." —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"Overkill? This isn't a game of Kick-the-Ouphe!" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
If only it had three brains, too.
"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"The Guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"The Guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"Serve me, and live forever." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
"Open the gates, and bid them enter." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished.
From Otaria, the sun above meets the sea below at a glittering horizon.
The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil.
Lush growth spreads like a ferocious blaze across the Otarian hillsides.
A monument to long-forgotten gods, it stands as a tribute to the fleeting nature of human ways.
Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war.
"How tragic that greed eclipses beauty." —Seton, centaur druid
"Has your peaceful nature led you on a crusade?" —Watnik, master glassblower
"There's dead, and then there's dead dead." —Steamclaw driver
"Have your dreams of a better society become an obsession?" —Watnik, master glassblower
"Does your passion for power consume your soul?" —Watnik, master glassblower
"Two or three tons of rock can really get you down—and keep you there." —Kamahl, pit fighter
When building gnomes, dwarves adhere to the highest standards. The gnomes themselves aren't as particular.
"Can you feel your instincts overwhelm your reason?" —Watnik, master glassblower
"It offers you what you want, not what you need." —Braids, dementia summoner
The toymaker frowned in bewilderment. None of his creations had ever sneezed before.
Dwarves have been known to take pickaxes to their own creations, hoping to discover treasures within.
"Do you thirst for knowledge no matter the cost?" —Watnik, master glassblower
The gems' incandescence invades the dreams of all who see them.
She enraptures all, encompasses all, endures all.
"Anyone can admire creation. Only a barbarian sees the beauty in demolition." —Kamahl, pit fighter
It relishes old-fashioned family meals.
"With friends like these, who needs people?"
What is a tree? Slow hard thought. What is a flower? Swift soft flesh. What is a druid? Both.
It teaches you to play dead.
He exercises his right to bear arms.
Near the Krosan border, farmers keep watch over their fields lest the sod get up and wander away.
"Break one in half and you'll get a decent—if gooey—pair of weapons." —Centaur warrior
The centaurs' simple magic can undo a basilisk's gaze, but only for a short time.
In the Krosan Forest, you've got to keep an eye out for the squirrels.
An army of squirrels is still an army.
The ground trembled in a violent purr.
"No mage's deception can harm those who keep nature balanced."
A blossom's petals close inward to shut out the frost. —Nantuko teaching
"Survival of the fittest is not only the law of the pits, it is the law of nature. That is why I fight."
Death is a moth that dances toward our inner flame. The brightest fire can singe its wings. —Nantuko teaching
When in doubt, stomp.
"Don't dismiss its anger as mindless fury. I assure you, it has purpose." —Seton, centaur druid
Those who follow nature's path eventually walk in a circle.
The dance of angry feet —Nantuko expression meaning "stampede"
Faster than a cobra's bite.
Spreading a blanket of growth to warm a weary world.
That which grows without roots cannot be uprooted. —Nantuko teaching
Plant a field with wishes, and you will grow more wishes. —Nantuko teaching
Unanswered prayers are themselves answers. —Nantuko teaching
As strong as a centaur's will.
Only a handful have seen it transform. Or, from the wurm's perspective, only a mouthful.
A leaf dancer sweeps through the forest like a spring breeze, evading even the sharpest eyes and ears.
Those who see the squirrels go underground in the winter aren't ready for what emerges in the spring.
She'd have a fearsome reputation if she left any survivors.
In the gardens of the centaurs, many travelers have mysteriously vanished while admiring the elaborate topiaries.
"Let all we have buried be buried forever." —Seton, centaur druid
"I want a banana this big!"
Suffer the little creatures, for they may yet rise up and beat you senseless.
The druids and the forest are in perfect harmony. They sing the same songs.
"Finding the way once is luck. Finding the way twice takes a good map."
"Nature is the endless dance between life and death." —Seton, centaur druid
"If you don't hit your adversaries while they're down, they might get up again."
Otaria's frequent tremors are the last stages of Dominaria's recovery from the Phyrexian war.
The Pardic Mountains are known for their spicy cuisine.
"True strength lies in action. Let the weak react to me." —Kamahl, pit fighter
A finely crafted blade will never meet as many blows on the battlefield as it did on the anvil.
"Punch and drag, Toss the slag, Sift the soil, Leave the spoil."
"I've heard of putting the cat out, but this isn't what I had in mind." —Nomad sentry
"Lizards make excellent familiars. They never know when they've lost." —Matoc, lavamancer
His feet buckled the ground, his hands cut the wind to ribbons, and he was gone.
"Doing okay back there, Tarv? Tarv?"
Lavamancers make simple requests: obey or die.
After the invasion devastated the Talruum and Hurloon tribes, the survivors began to search for other minotaurs.
Standing near a volcano —Barbarian expression meaning "asking for it"
The bones it buries may be yours.
There's no such thing as a little bit of lava.
To treat flesh wounds, use earth. To treat earth wounds, use flesh. —Barbarian saying
"I didn't come to play. I came to win."
His reputation precedes him—and so does his weapon.
The best thing about ogres is that they never try to sneak up on you.
As hot as a dwarf's rage.
Reach out and torch someone.
Sometimes destruction is Dominaria's way of rebuilding. Sometimes it's not.
Spot one ember beast, attack. Spot a second, best fall back. —Dwarven saying
Any given foothill may hide dozens of dwarves waiting to spill from their tunnels like fire ants.
Hard as stone and twice as stubborn. —Dwarven compliment
"Pound the steel until it fits. Doesn't work? Bash to bits." —Dwarven forging song
The more unlikely the victory, the more memorable the success.
"Pain teaches lessons no scholar can." —Kamahl, pit fighter
Barbarians equate courage with the ability to endure pain.
The pits swallow the weak as predators swallow prey.
"I once saw a single barbarian charge a band of twenty nomads. I've seen some crazy ones, too." —Nomad sentry
"I'm not sure which impresses me most, its thoroughness or its intensity." —Matoc, lavamancer
Those who will not follow are doomed to lead.
"The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it." —Mystic elder
The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial.
Nothing is sacred to the undead—not even their own kind.
"Zombies don't kill. They recruit." —Braids, dementia summoner
It glides through the shadows until it reaches yours.
The fondest memories burn brightest. As they're lost forever, the flames grow hotter still.
The pits feed both its thirst for combat and its thirst for blood.
It's important to face your inner demons . . . unless they're the kind of demons that can kill you.
"Victory in the pits is almost as rewarding as the methods I use to achieve it."
Wracked with rot, it wrecks and ruins.
Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls.
It is the thing that goes bump in the night.
As haunting as a zombie's curse.
The most popular pit fighters are brought back for encore performances.
Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death.
"Practice makes perfect, but obsession makes better."
Oddly, no one questioned the Cabal's wisdom in hiring a zombie to work at the cemetery.
"Anyone can snap her fingers and yank a soul. I prefer to kill creatively." —Braids, dementia summoner
Imps aren't born knowing how to fly—just how to annoy.
Some things even fleas won't bite.
Memories have distinct tastes. Its favorites are the sickly sweetness of lost love and the bitter smokiness of cruel murder.
"It's only frightened five people to death. Not my best work." —Braids, dementia summoner
"Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead." —Cabal Patriarch
A grave is the safest place to store ill-gotten treasures.
It despises humans and squirrels and beasts and dwarves and cephalids . . . well, it despises just about everything.
The best ideas often come from the worst minds.
"Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?" —Cabal grave robber
"Run away! It's an . . . um . . . run away!" —Nomad sentry
To unearth its dinner, it inters itself.
"Twisted magic, twisted fate, Force the land to ooze with hate." —Cabal chant
The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas.
"Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions."
When one of the Patriarch's champions displeased him, he would only shake his finger. That was enough.
Knowledge can't be kept in a bottle or sealed in a box. It yearns to be spread and shared.
The calm comes after the storm.
Scribbles of a lunatic and formulas of a genius are often indistinguishable.
Crian's patrols afford him plenty of opportunity to take potshots at the "dirtwalkers" far below.
Dreads had half a mind to leave.
Cephalids specialize in things unseen, be they politics, betrayal, or themselves.
There's lots of time like the present.
Balshan wizards have long used them to gnaw away the memories they wish to forget.
The first memory it sucks out of its host is how to get rid of it.
Thinking is hard.
Cephalids seek knowledge not to better themselves, but to best others.
"Memories can't simply be washed away. The mind must be scrubbed clean." —Ambassador Laquatus
"Take your time."
A good memory is no match for a good scribe.
"I have a hunch we'll be seeing that one again soon." —Ambassador Laquatus
"Getting people to do what you want is merely a matter of telling them what they want to hear."
For sale: Complete wizard's library. Rare scrolls, grimoires, and works of ancient spellcrafting! Slightly abridged.
It lurks in the mist, waiting for stragglers to fall behind. When the fog clears, nothing remains but footprints.
"Protocol demands that you bow down before me. I always stand on protocol."
Sometimes you have to read between the minds.
Even the trivial can inspire.
"The best way to teach is by example."
One never knows when inspiration will bubble up.
"Your tenacity is admirable. And futile." —Emperor Aboshan
To say Nixar had a splitting headache would be a bit of an understatement.
"Not even my shadow knows where I am."
"What's the fun of being a wizard if you can't mess with people's heads?"
"From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better." —Emperor Aboshan
"The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory."
Politics is just a subtle form of mind control—and cephalids are master politicians.
The more they survey the dreadful dry expanses, the more the cephalids thirst to tame them.
Cephalids whisper flattery in your ear, put jewels in your hand, spin dreams in your head, and stick knives in your back.
"Amazing, isn't it, what humans will throw away when they're drowning?"
"Amazing, isn't it, what humans will throw away when they're drowning?"
Cephalids value the free exchange of ideas—except for the "free" part.
Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield.
The wizard who reads a thousand books is powerful. The wizard who memorizes a thousand books is insane.
It helps to have an extra direction in which to run.
"The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep."
In a world still pained from burns, some are born already scarred.
The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow.
"It's not really stealing. It's more like extended borrowing."
The aven claim it feeds on thunder and rainbows.
As fleeting as a cephalid's promise.
"No one can fight the tide forever."
"We've survived starvation, dwarf attacks, and heatstroke. Why should a little sandstorm bother us?"
"Belief in the Ancestor is admirable, but our enemies often demand something more . . . tangible." —Pianna, nomad captain
"There is purity in all things. Even hatred." —Lieutenant Kirtar
Truth tempers fanaticism.
Reason exposes deception.
Law smothers anarchy.
Grace repels darkness.
Duty subdues instinct.
"Holy couriers guide aven spirits up to the home of the Ancestor." —Mystic elder
Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own.
It suddenly dawned on Jorin that farming was quite a noble profession.
Nomads understand many cultures and therefore travel without fear.
"A life is measured by the lives it saves."
"I would die a thousand deaths before I let you harm another."
Some find inspiration in their swords. Others find it in their leaders.
To the camp, it was a fierce and loyal protector. To the sentry's youngest daughter, it would always be her "Wuv Muffin."
If you can take something from a nomad, it's probably bait.
Nomad youths aspire to one of two roles in the tribe: priest or warrior. Their secret dream is to become both.
"The aven are heralds of divinity. The greatest glory is to join them in the sky."
It takes a remarkable cleric to turn a group of healers into a hospital.
"There is no victory without virtue."
As uplifting as a mystic's dreams.
"His strengths are pride, devotion, and ambition. His weaknesses are the same." —Pianna, nomad captain
The courageous accomplish more in a single moment than the cowardly do in a lifetime.
"The world has enough strife as it is. Where would we be if we turned against each other?" —Pianna, nomad captain
The relationship between hunter and hunted knows nothing of alliances.
Their whispered prayers rally the nomads better than any war cry could.
Her eyes blaze with the strength of twenty shields. Every glance is a salvation.
"If he's so willing to suffer for his cause, then by all means, let us oblige him." —Cabal Patriarch
"There will be gains for our losses. There will be rights for our wrongs."
When the crimson fades from the magical embers, a final wisp of smoke will rise. Soon after, hostilities will begin anew.
His quiet words fade into the night's chill, yet they burn into his listeners' minds with all the power of a thousand suns.
Nomad and Nantuko, eagle and elephant; all the birds and beasts are charmed by his quiet dignity.
Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member.
"At the Reapportionment, Eagle begged to be human. The Ancestor granted half that prayer." —Nomad myth
Aimed by the eyes of eagles, their arrows never miss the mark.
Beauty stirs the memory like a sweet perfume excites the air.
"The animal spirits are the Ancestor's grandchildren. Remember them." —Mystic elder
"The Ancestor protects us in ways we can't begin to comprehend." —Mystic elder
Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
Only death breeds in stagnant water. —Urborg saying
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
The warriors fought against the paralyzing waves until even their thoughts froze in place.
The bigger they are, the stronger its pull.
"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"
Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.
Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life.
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
"They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted." —Urza
"They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted." —Urza
"It is a slaughter, the death of a sea. Never speak of it again." —The Lord of Atlantis
Starke knew the voice was Takara's, but the venom was Volrath's.
For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.
"I want every last one of these tree-hugging, earth-loving, pointy-eared weaklings out of here. Now!"
It roams in both the worlds of the living and the dead but belongs to neither.
A single germ can kill more soldiers than ten thousand blades.
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
"Eye of twilight, give us sight. Take our offer, give us might. Make our power tears of night."
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
Closing time comes earlier to some than to others.
Like a volcano, it too can erupt without warning.
Once an angel, now an abomination.
Once an angel, now an abomination.
He wastes his amazing talents on proving how amazing he really is.
Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
"I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge." —Urborg witch
"The paladins would be wise not to forget about the Pearl Trident. The merfolk warriors have turned the tide of more than one human war … and I have no doubt they shall do so again." —Onean scholar
When you sink a lot of ships, it's easy to find sunken treasure.
"Rest now. You've neither won nor lost, but this battle is over for you just the same." —Teferi
Not choosing sides in a war can be dangerous—but lucrative.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.
You might as well try to catch water with a net.
"Your attack has been rendered harmless. It is, however, quite pretty." —Saprazzan vizier
"Your attack has been rendered harmless. It is, however, quite pretty." —Saprazzan vizier
"We need alternatives, Hanna," yelled Gerrard. "Now"
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay
"Those who know only one path to victory can never hope to triumph." —The Blind Seer
An audience of one with the malice of thousands.
"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you." —Takara, to Eladamri
In their hunger for the arch's power, mages often forget that it only makes dragons easier to summon. It doesn't make them easier to control.
"Don't mourn for me. This is my destiny." —Gerrard
One splash of the spring's water knocks you clear into last week.
They danced like puppets to a tune only Yawgmoth could hear.
No one knew if they'd been lurking under the sea all along, or if they'd been created by the Phyrexian overlay.
The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing."
"I do not like it," said Grizzlegom, "but I will take every soldier I can get."
"We have fought this far and lost too much. We will not turn back." —Grizzlegom
"Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery."
The decay of Crovax's ancestral home matched the state of his soul.
Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears.
Honor the brave who fought, Honor the dead who fell, Honor the world they saved. —Memorial inscription
Just as leaves fall from the branches of a living tree, so too do the dead leave the elfhame.
A massive pull of mana caused all of Dominaria to pause—Multani had transplanted Yavimaya to Urborg's edge.
The ground rose and formed into thousands of tiny warriors. This fight was far from over.
A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist.
The grace of the forest and the spirit of the sea.
A mane of flowstone and a mien of fury.
Crovax was nearly buried beneath the weight of his opponents.
Its roots are equally happy to drink the water of a clear stream or the oily blood of a Phyrexian warrior.
Yawgmoth's greatest joy came from watching one hero defeat another.
As Multani's troops invaded Urborg, the decay of the swamp became a feast for the living.
Sisay discovered that the mirrored hull of the Weatherlight could be used as a defensive weapon.
The elves of Urborg are as deadly and capricious as the swamp itself.
Freyalise bought the planeswalkers the time they needed by clearing a path through the misshapen hell of Phyrexia.
"You know your orders. I know your hearts. Now the stronghold will know defeat." —Eladamri
These omnivorous gorillas have no qualms about a diet composed of equal parts fruit and Phyrexians.
"These kavu are so stubborn they even refuse to die." —Tahngarth
This cat has two lives and it's hunting for more.
Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared.
To the kavu, all Phyrexians are merely crunchy snacks.
Long thought merely a legend, the appearance of the gnarr was seen by the defenders as a sign of good luck.
Not all of Dominaria's defenders were nourished by the light.
"The blessings of Gaea alone are no longer enough."
A cross between a jaguar and an armadillo.
"They're ugly, and they're in my way." —Tahngarth
"The strong can also be subtle."
Dwarves never worry about who watches their backs.
Heart of fire, blood of lava, teeth of stone.
For them, the only honorable death is one that leaves a crater.
It took all its strength to contain the fire within.
It doesn't need to feed, but still it hungers.
In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death.
As the druids had devoted their lives to preserving Dominaria, so did they devote their deaths.
All of Dominaria recoiled as Yawgmoth and his retainers arrived.
It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua.
An audience of one with the malice of thousands.
"The darkness merely hides the light."
Treated with a powerful mix of herbs and potions, its wrappings have a remarkable preservative effect, even for the living.
The Phyrexians have one word that means both "evolution" and "pain."
"Beautiful, isn't it?" crowed Crovax. "They fought together. Now they will die together."
Where the wind meets the water, change is inevitable.
"Sometimes when I look at the ocean, I could swear it changes colors." —Sisay
What nature makes, magic can modify.
"Oh, is that all you need? Why didn't you just say so?" —Reef shaman
With one gesture, she can render a thousand years of navigational charts obsolete.
The ship has a crew of three: the pilot, the gunner, and the ship itself.
"You're not my Hanna!" —Gerrard, to Yawgmoth
"Calm down everyone; it's nothing we haven't seen before." —Sisay
"Let's see . . . Mercadia, mercenary, merfolk . . . you know, I really need a better filing system."
Even the oppresive cold of the cave could not temper Eladamri's ire.
Effective use of terrain is a lesson good commanders learn quickly.
When the kavu emerged from their ancient nests, food chains long dormant became vibrant again.
"The sea holds all that you need. You simply must know how to ask for it."
The standard was a rallying point for the army and a target for the enemy.
A shadowy version of its corporeal cousin, this lynx hunts souls, not meals.
The duty: to defend. The reason: to survive.
Hope kept the defenders aloft, but only courage kept them in the fight.
"Phyrexia is an unforgiving place, and I am an angry lord in an unforgiving mood." —Lord Windgrace
"It's the oldest trick in the book," said Guff. "And I ought to know—I wrote it."
"There is no true equity of power. There is only more and less."
Giving little thought to their own defense, they carried the flag that united their army.
Nothing burns hotter than the fires of holy rage.
Strengthened by a thousand limbs.
"A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend." —Onean sergeant
Tainted by a thousand fears.
The warriors fought against the paralyzing waves until even their thoughts froze in place.
Knowledge knows no bounds.
"I'm not one for pretty things," said Sisay. "Unless they're pretty useful as well."
The rod is a relic from ancient times . . . cruel, vicious, mean-spirited times.
Never forget your feet —Elvish expression meaning "watch your step"
It doesn't think. It doesn't feel. It doesn't laugh or cry. All it does from dusk till dawn Is make the soldiers die. —Onean children's rhyme
Its wings were only designed to be ornamental, but it learned to use them on its own.
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
The bigger they are, the stronger its pull.
"Knowledge is power." —Sir Francis Bacon, Meditationes Sacrae
Your heart's desire is found within. —Saddlebag inscription
Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return.
Blessed by a thousand prayers.
Forged by a thousand flames.
Legend has it that the mine howls out the last words of those who died inside.
The Southern Paladin taught the airborne vermin to fear the storm that rains upward.
"Every day, I fight for my life and win. Every night, I fight to remember my name and lose."
"Wheeeeeeeeeeeeeee!"
Feroz is gone, but what remains is his final gift to his people: the right to be left alone.
Bridges usually get you from one place to another. This one just gets you.
Legend has it that the world was hatched from a dingus egg.
Polished by a thousand waves.
The Eastern Paladin knew how highly his southern rival valued horses, so he gleefully prepared a suitable welcome.
The heavier the load, the harder it works.
Some say Aladdin's third wish was for this ring.
Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes.
Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed.
The elves long ago mastered the art of hunting with nets. They call it "fishing the sky."
If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow.
Spring breathes the magic of new life.
Each spell has its own song, and the enchantress knows the dance for each.
No forest is so remote that the elves don't know its secrets.
Even the grandest forest begins with a single seedling. —Llanowar saying
Armodons are trained to step on things. Enemy things.
"Their thoughts flow through my mind, and I am healed." —Fyndhorn elder
Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.
"May the winds blow till they have wakened death. . . ." —William Shakespeare, Othello
"I wouldn't stand in front of that wurm, son. 'Course, I wouldn't stand behind it neither. In fact, standing anywhere near that wurm's not much of a plan. Running, now that's a plan" —Wandering mage
Where dryads dance, seeds sprout and flowers bloom.
Seekers spend their lives protecting a home they rarely visit.
"One piece? Now there's a hundred!"
Those who understand the forest are free to harvest its bounty.
"Why should death always have the last word?" —Llanowar druid
And would you strip the bark from a treefolk? —Elvish expression meaning "Are you crazy?"
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
Nature grows solutions to her problems.
There's only one thing worse than a hungry lion—many hungry lions.
The land rises up to defend against those who would spoil its beauty.
"The dead whisper to the living. If you listen, you will learn." —Maro
Get in touch with your inner monster.
"Guess where I'm gonna plant this!"
No two see the same Maro.
"When the forest wants something, no mortal mind can resist her." —Maro
A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute.
Llanowar covers a million square miles, yet nobody enters the forest without the elves knowing it.
They've got claws as long as your arm. And they're grouchy. Really, really grouchy.
A gorilla chief must always be prepared to defend his crown. This leads to some pretty tough apes.
Watching the spider's web —Llanowar expression meaning "focusing on the wrong thing"
"I felt the ground shake, so I hid in my tent until the earthquake passed. It passed all right, and it left hoofprints." —Femeref explorer
"It is useful to be able to speak to the trees. But it is truly wondrous to be able to listen to them."
"Bet you can't put it through the eye." "Left or right?"
More than any other battlefield, the forest gives the advantage to those who know it best.
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
To an elf, magic and music are the same.
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Elvish hymn
The archers have a reputation for attacking without warning. They claim that the first arrow is the warning.
"I may seem wise to you, but I'm merely a sapling among mighty oaks."
"Give it a week and it will feed an army."
Mold crept over the walls and into every crevice until the gleaming white stone strained and burst.
A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout. —Yavimaya saying
It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself.
The merfolk may rule the waters, but hippos have never had much respect for authority.
"There's never been a dwarven smith who could match the marvels that Gaea herself forges." —The Elvish Champion
The Phyrexian killing machines couldn't have known the seriousness of their mistake in wounding the ape—they'd never seen it angry.
You'll never find an anaconda in a swamp. It will always find you first.
Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a big appetite.
The erupting flames work as both barrier and weapon.
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.
Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?
"That arm's for bashin'. That one's for smashin'. That one's for scratchin'. And that one . . . I don't know what that one's for." —Orgg trainer
Caught red-handed.
She speaks with the voice of the winds, and the earth trembles.
"We were ready for an attack from the front, sides, or back—but the mage hit us from below." —Veteran soldier
The undisputed master of the mountains of Shiv.
Earth arms itself with fire.
"Here, kitty kitty. Here, kitty kitty. Aaaaugh!"
"Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground."
"Be as fast as lightning, and you will be just as deadly." —Combat trainer
Those who play with fire are bound to get burned.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Who says lightning never strikes twice?" —Storm shaman
"When the air burns, only death breathes deep." —Bogardan mage
Do not judge a lizard by its size. —Ghitu proverb
"Burn their homes. Salt their lands. Nothing survives." —The Western Paladin
"Ready . . . aim . . . fire!" "Ow!"
Ogres learn how to smash stuff even before they learn how to walk.
"A flash of the lightning, a break of the wave, He passes from life to his rest in the grave." —William Knox, "Mortality"
"I'll climb down soon. Don't worry, it's just a thundersto—" —Former elvish scout
"Catch!"
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead." —Wandering mage
"I'm going to count to three. Three."
Hill giants are mostly just big. Of course, that does count for a lot.
"Let me introduce you to Rocky."
The goblin idea of music is to hit something with a stick.
Goblins prefer caves to just about anything else. Caves prefer just about anything else to goblins.
He's smart for a goblin. He can do two things: hit and run.
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . .
"What's got two arms, one wing, and no brains?" —Ghitu riddle
Years of attempts have brought the goblins no closer to growing a sausage tree.
We're elite. You're not. —Infantry motto
"Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Die" —Goblin chant
The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar.
The Ghitu believe their race was born of fire, and it's an honor to return to it.
It treads on feet of coals and strikes with the force of a volcano.
A reward is worthless if you aren't around to enjoy it.
The intensity of their glare was soon surpassed by the intensity of their attack.
"Fire hurts them almost as much as the chaos that follows. Almost." —The Western Paladin
The hellkites are artists with flames, painting the world with fire.
"It is a slaughter, the death of a sea. Never speak of it again." —The Lord of Atlantis
After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck.
Fire never dies alone.
The generals were dead. The battle plans were forgotten. It was everyone for themselves.
"From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do." —Balduvian tavern song
As the foul beast appeared, arcane lightning crackled around it.
The warping of bodies and souls has become the heart of Yawgmoth's existence.
"Expect nothing but scorn, flattery, and lies. And never turn your back on him." —The Northern Paladin
A skeletal wall, strengthened by the souls of traitors, rings the city of the Eastern Paladin.
"I don't feel any different."
Pockets of Æther can be so foul they melt flesh from bone.
The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
When the strands call, only the dead answer.
What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty.
You are who you eat.
They're the fiercest of all the Western Paladin's soldiers. They're also the most fiercely loyal—but that loyalty comes at a price.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
It eats death and drinks pain.
The battle's end is the meal's beginning.
They'll chew through armor, flesh, and bone. They'll even chew through each other if they're hungry enough.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
He hunts what might have been.
No one knows whether they were named for the diseases they carry or for the speed at which they multiply.
"I want every last one of these tree-hugging, earth-loving, pointy-eared weaklings out of here. Now!"
"You won't be needing this."
"Defeating an enemy is not nearly as satisfying as watching one suffer." —The Western Paladin
The Eastern Paladin doesn't attack at night for the tactical advantage. He does it for the sheer joy of fighting beneath the moon.
The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair.
No fear. No sense. And soon, no lunch.
What wizards fear most is losing their minds.
Memories cut from the mind can cut right back.
On darkness feeding, in nightmares breeding.
"Brackish water, dark and blind Heed my will, to you I bind." —Opening passage of Leshrac's Rite
"East and West meet and angels cry. Unholy power darkens the sky." —"The Ballad of the Paladins"
Whether it howls for hunger or for joy, you're in trouble just the same.
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
An advisor once asked the Western Paladin how much gold would be enough. "I have no need of fools who can imagine 'enough,'" he told the advisor's corpse.
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him.
"It's hard to keep our own troops from fleeing when he's like this. How can our foes possibly stand against him?" —Field marshal for the Eastern Paladin
The villagers call it "winged stench."
"Booga booga booga!"
"Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me." —Fallen angel, to Serra
A single germ can kill more soldiers than ten thousand blades.
"There is no worse enemy. His passion for death doesn't just border on insanity, it wallows in it." —The Southern Paladin
"Change your mind, or I'll change it for you."
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"We live for a thousand years. The death of even one brings untold sorrow." —Elvish elder
The eclipse made it clear whose side the sky was on.
"Hence 'banishèd' is banished from the world, / And the world's exile is death." —William Shakespeare, Romeo and Juliet
The darkness of his shield reflects the inky blackness of his soul.
Beware anything born among the dead. —Tolarian saying
The bodies of its victims are the only tracks it leaves.
Think of it as a butcher knife with wings.
No thrull has ever been burdened with a long life.
Grief is a razor that slices the soul.
The bog's touch means death to all but the darkest of hearts.
"I think little of the foes I've slain. But I'm haunted by the friends I've sent to die." —The Southern Paladin
To gaze under its hood is to invite death.
"I dreamt of it once. Now I fear it dreams of me." —Tolarian scholar
"But high she shoots through air and light, Above all low delay, Where nothing earthly bounds her flight, Nor shadow dims her way." —Thomas Moore, "Oh that I had Wings"
The sky is her stage.
They wondered at the size of it. It wondered which to eat first.
"Let the air itself protect you, for it is everywhere." —Master wizard
A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made that mistake again.
It can stay aloft for weeks with little or no sleep.
"Nope, there's nothing here either. You guys go on ahead, I'll catch up in a minute. . . . Whoo hoo!"
Why not ask the winds? —Tolarian expression meaning "Who knows?"
Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies steal jewels for theirs.
"Of course she's at the head of her class. All of her classmates have disappeared." —Tolarian renegade
"Secrets? What secrets?"
Most spies sneak into enemy camps. These spies sneak into enemy minds.
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
"Most people believe magic is only a trick. Why change their minds?"
"Abandon ship!"
He wastes his amazing talents on proving how amazing he really is.
It can pass through solid matter—but that doesn't mean it's harmless.
Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work.
Little things like morals shouldn't hinder one's ambition. —Pirate creed
"The paladins would be wise not to forget about the Pearl Trident. The merfolk warriors have turned the tide of more than one human war . . . and I have no doubt they shall do so again." —Onean scholar
When you sink a lot of ships, it's easy to find sunken treasure.
"Eri phar phesta . . . um, phistor . . . er, phistara . . ."
Neither head holds a brain—that's located somewhere in the chest—but four eyes aim much better than two.
"Remove their power, and their will to fight will follow." —Tolarian wizard
The mana that binds the world together can also tear it apart.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"We'll be easy targets if we remain on the ground. Let's take the fight to them."
It doesn't like having visitors . . . unless it's having them for lunch.
The deep sleep of winter is not always restful.
Like arguing with ice —Vodalian expression meaning "wasting your time"
The only thing that flows faster than water is fear.
"I don't think so."
"It was as if we fought a shadow." —Onean soldier
Scholars in their ivory towers call them "sharks of the sky." Scholars on the road don't call them at all.
"How many people can you save in that thing?" "All of them," replied the mage with a smile.
Seek balance in all things—as long as the scales are weighted in your favor. —Vodalian saying
When nothing but second best will do.
"You've thrown your net at the wrong fish." —The Lord of Atlantis
"I've seen my master do this a hundred times. How hard can it be?"
The coral merfolk delight in wrestling with their foes, skinning them alive on the razor-sharp edges of their reef.
"The surface world contains nothing I cannot take." —The Lord of Atlantis
"Returne from whence ye came. . . ." —Edmund Spenser, The Faerie Queene
The sea has many secrets, but some are too big to be kept.
He can drown you in his eyes.
"Knowledge is a feast for the mind. Savor every swallow."
Too many wizards spoil the spell, but too many spells spoil the wizard. —Sign on entry to arcane lab
"It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards." —Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking Glass
Where psycho meets cyclone.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol." —Serra
Sharper than wind, lighter than air.
"It is the duty of the strong to oppose any who threaten the weak." —The Southern Paladin
"I rely not so much on the wisdom of age as on the overconfidence of youth."
You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit.
Sometimes the wings of fallen dragons refuse to give up the sky.
"The key to winning any fight is simply staying alive." —The Southern Paladin
"Even in the darkest night Stars and angels still shine bright." —Onean children's rhyme
They fight so closely together a mouse couldn't slip past their guard.
The noble paladins draw strength from the courage of others.
"How can anyone fight so much yet enjoy it so little?" —The Western Paladin
The earliest mystics believed that the falcon slit the sky to let the light break through.
"If not for the wizard, we'd all be dead now. 'Course, it was him that started all this in the first place." —Onean veteran
"With one breath, the newborn angel took to the air . . . and the world sighed." —The Book of Serra
Her sword sings more beautifully than any choir.
An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills.
He reads the battlefield like a map, always seeking the shortest route to victory.
"The peasants labor for my profit. I approve."
Why does a Samite heal? You might as well ask why a bird flies.
"For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Kubla Khan"
The land will never betray those who gave their lives for it.
"We spent three weeks trying to knock that wall down. Now it's knocking us down." —Onean sergeant
"Weapons usually bring death. Today, mine will bring life."
"Fear this no more!"
Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you.
"We have no need for these trinkets. We need only the strength of our swords and the virtue of our hearts." —The Northern Paladin
A valiant knight's life has no meaning without honor.
Without warriors there can be no war.
"How smooth his face, how sure his thoughts. I look forward to breaking his mighty will." —The Eastern Paladin
Her heart holds the pain of every soldier she's ever healed.
Some say they have the blood of hawks running through their veins.
Kings don't make knights. Actions do.
Knights are quick to pledge their loyalty and even quicker to charge into battle.
Honorable in battle, generous in death. —Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard
A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear.
The strength of one. The courage of ten.
"Soldiers wear down and enemies collapse—but the ballista never tires." —Ballista captain
"North and South meet and angels sing. Voices resound with a righteous ring." —"The Ballad of the Paladins"
A picture is worth a thousand swords.
They fletch their arrows with the feathers of angels.
"Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed."
Twang. You're dead.
Most eagles hunt small animals. The cloudchasers hunt magic.
". . . Our castle's strength Will laugh a siege to scorn." —William Shakespeare, Macbeth
"Nothing can stop the power of life—not even death." —Onean cleric
"A battle's outcome is never certain." —The Southern Paladin
Knights fight for honor and mercenaries fight for gold. The militia fights for hearth and home.
If only every message were as perfect as its messenger.
Legend has it that meteor craters are haunted by the ghosts of those who died on impact.
Designed like the gargadons of Keld—big and brutal.
It doesn't point north. It points home.
Overflowing with visions of the possible future, it lends power to those in the present.
Deep in Yawgmoth's realm, Urza stopped dead in his tracks and rubbed his soot-filled eyes. "Mishra?"
Like his mother before him, Darigaaz gave his life defending Dominaria from the tyranny of self-styled "gods."
When angered or frightened, it protects itself with a burst of blinding light.
"He is Yawgmoth's reward to me. I shall kill him a hundred times a day." —Crovax, to Ertai
Meddling mages chant so loudly that no one can get a spell in edgewise.
"Rule through fear, Darigaaz. Only if the dragons feel terror will they truly be your servants." —Tevesh Szat
"Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the Predator crashing into his stronghold."
"That didn't happen naturally," said Multani. "Rath's overlay is interfering with the Æther itself."
"Unless you like the idea of becoming some goblin's lunch, get up and move"
Altered by Phyrexian science, corrupted by black mana, and twisted by rage, Ertai still looked in the mirror and saw only glory.
Altered by Phyrexian science, corrupted by black mana, and twisted by rage, Ertai still looked in the mirror and saw only glory.
Tribal rivalries and petty disputes were laid aside at Eladamri's summons.
"Don't you agree that mogg intellects are improved by zombification?" —Lord Dralnu
Stage two of the Phyrexian invasion included the complete alteration of Dominaria's landscape.
Most warriors think in only two dimensions. Agnate and his metathran brethren were trained to battle in three.
It outlived both king and castle.
Blessed with many options, Thornscape masters favor scarabs as familiars.
To maintain its hide, it consumes a variety of rocks—not to mention a variety of Phyrexians.
"Behold," said Freyalise to Eladamri. "Your Skyshroud home has followed you to Dominaria."
The root of all greevils.
Fight with a friend at your back, steel in your hands, and magic in your veins. —Quirion creed
"Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"We could learn a lot by watching the little ones," said Agnate. "Define 'little,'" replied Grizzlegom.
Freyalise strengthens her faithful.
"Welcome to paradise."
It doesn't need a bite. The bark works just fine.
With the Heart of Yavimaya aiding him, Multani didn't even strain at the load.
"I bring word from Gaea. Fight on She will never allow her children to die alone."
Merfolk raided the shores untroubled for years . . . until the shores started fighting back.
Kavu leaders instinctively protect their herds from harm.
Thunderscape masters release familiars to help guide their apprentices down the thunderscape path.
"All right, let's light 'em up" —Gerrard
It's most effective when it doesn't eat the ammunition.
Burnt flesh. Blackened soul.
"Nobody stands in one place better than a mogg." —Tahngarth
Hey, wake up —Mogg secret password
"At this rate," said Sisay, "the next kavu we see will have wings."
Few ever see this particular breed of kavu, which hides in forests of its own making.
"Sacrificing mortal dragons to satisfy your immortal hunger ends here." —Darigaaz, to Rith
To save Dominaria, nine planeswalkers sought the annihilation of Phyrexia itself.
"For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim." —Sisay
"Nothing ruins your day like a blazing zombie." —Tahngarth
As powerful and malleable as the molten rock it calls home.
"Before the glory of Yawgmoth, yes, even this makes sense." —Urza, to Gerrard
Its claws cut faster than a flame flickers.
The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered.
"I bless the living with a song of death." —Lord Dralnu
When Crosis roared, the battle ended and the slaughter began.
It reeks of terror and chaos.
Urborg would just as soon steal your memories as your life.
Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it.
"The toads of Urborg aren't fast, powerful, or pleasant, but they have their uses." —Ertai
"The mere sight of our undead allies sickens me. What unholy bargain have you struck?" —Grizzlegom, to Agnate
"I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?" —Lord Dralnu
"Do not fear death. I shall release you from the eternal bonds and bring you glory." —Lord Dralnu
There's no higher honor in Phyrexia than dying for Yawgmoth's glorious vision.
"After four thousand years, you learn to plan for betrayal." —Urza
While Dominarians fought for their world, Rath stole it from under their feet.
Each Stormscape apprentice must hand-raise and train an owl before attaining the rank of master.
Master the sky and you rule everything beneath it. —Metathran saying
It always has the home-turf advantage.
The Phyrexians don't want to conquer Dominaria. They want to remake it.
Even the fiercest beast will flee when faced with the possibility of becoming dinner.
"I'd be happy to stop contradicting you, Urza, just as soon as you start being right." —Bo Levar, planeswalker
"I'll get you to safety—or whatever passes for safety these days." —Urborg ferry pilot
"Don't worry, Gerrard," said Ertai. "I'm sure the crew will come to your rescue as quickly as they came to mine."
"Did I know Szat would betray us?" Urza asked quizzically. "I was counting on it."
Each commander looked at the others and wondered who would be first to break the alliance.
The spirits of fallen battlemages can serve their guilds as familiars by joining with any physical form.
"I enjoy a good joke as much as the next guy." —Commodore Guff
"I've faced your kind before. This time I'm ready for you."
"Wear courage as your armor. Wield honor as your blade." —Gerrard
"A good guard is alert. A great guard is also loyal." —Benalish kennelmaster
When no birds are available, Kangee's disciples fill the sky with anything that's willing to fight.
Though a fierce fighter, its true value is that it inspires beleaguered forces.
"None of your history books mention me?" laughed Daria. "They will now."
"Enter this palace-gate and ask the news Of greatness fallen into dust and clay." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Burton
"Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is: What if my leaves are falling like its own!" - Percy Bysshe Shelley, "Ode to the West Wind"
"As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'" —Dal myth of the wurm
Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire." -"Hymn of Angelfire"
It's raining rats and moggs.
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Mold could catch you." —Suq'Ata insult
When the prey in Krosa no longer satisfied them, the beasts began to hunt their hunters.
The last thing a poacher in the Krosan Forest hears is the brutal sound of claws tearing flesh.
They rarely question their orders. Of course, they rarely understand them.
The joy of rebirth overshadows the sadness of death.
The landbound envy the birds' ultimate freedom in the sky.
It's not slow. It's deciding whether to stomp you or gore you.
The nauseating wriggling of a saproling is exceeded only by the nauseating wriggling of its prey.
"I will show you fear in a handful of dust." — T. S. Eliot, "The Waste Land"
"Life, struck sharp on death, Makes awful lightning." - Elizabeth Barrett Browning, "Aurora Leigh"
And in their blind and unattaining state their miserable lives have sunk so low that they must envy every other fate. —Dante, Inferno, trans. Ciardi
I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately. —Henry David Thoreau, Walden
Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war. —William Shakespeare, Julius Caesar
I will ... tell thee more than thou hast wit to ask. —Christopher Marlowe, Doctor Faustus
Peace hath her victories No less renownd than war. - John Milton, "To the Lord General Cromwell"
Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness.
Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit.
Only death breeds in stagnant water. —Urborg saying
Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy.
The Capashen built the highest towers in Benalia to afford themselves the best view.
"It's a tool for aiding my other tools," explained Urza. "Now they'll work in harmony."
"I found a troll-horn fragment in the wooded foothills of Hurloon, and it keeps growing larger. I wonder, is the horn recreating itself or the troll?" —Isel, master carver
"Treva is the voice of the ur-dragon, demanding cries of worship."
"An elvish adventurer unearthed this stone in Jolrael's jungle. Now it's truly fit for display in one of her palaces." —Isel, master carver
"Part drill sergeant, part training dummy," thought Gerrard. "I hope it can stand up to a real war."
"Today a seashell fell from the empty sky here in Kinymu, a hundred leagues from the sea. I'm torn—shall I carve a woman or a bird?" —Isel, master carver
"Rith is the claw of the ur-dragon, scattering seeds of devastation."
"Great peril demands formidable weaponry." —Urza
The sky split, and the air crackled and roiled. The Phyrexian invasion of Dominaria had finally begun.
"There's nothing I wouldn't give to achieve victory. Can you say the same?" —Tsabo Tavoc, to Gerrard
"Your life was meaningless, but your death will glorify Yawgmoth." —Tsabo Tavoc
Lotus fields are too valuable to leave undefended.
"Those who can't survive are of no consequence." —Tsabo Tavoc
"Dromar is the wings of the ur-dragon, sweeping away all opposition."
"A strange skull was turned up by an Ephran farmer's plow. I traded a copper ring for the 'ox skull.' It resonates of the sea and danger." —Isel, master carver
"Darigaaz is the breath of the ur-dragon, burning away the burdens of mortality."
"Crosis is the eye of the ur-dragon, piercing illusion and darkness."
"Let insight and energy be your guides." —The Blind Seer, to Gerrard
"The stone whispers to me of dragon's fire and darkness. I wish I'd never pried it from the figurehead of that sunken Keldon longship." —Isel, master carver
"We turned old weapons into new warriors." —Jhoira, master artificer
Kavu hunt prey in packs—one kavu hunts a pack of prey.
Not all elves embrace the pastoral life. Some still roam the forest's edge, forever making war against their hated enemies.
Urza knew Phyrexians would come through the air and sent his soldiers to greet them.
There's no known antidote for the cobra's venom . . . or its appetite.
"Every last one of you will become my servant. It's a shame you won't live to see the irony." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
The plague moved faster than an army and was far more deadly.
As battle raged in Shiv, a strange new ally appeared from below the ravaged ground.
Relentless as the sea, remorseless as death.
"Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?"
"I might almost pity my enemies—if it wasn't so amusing to watch them die."
"Isolation is not the answer." —Urza, to Teferi.
It winds its way through undergrowth as easily as it swims through shallows.
Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians.
Barbarians long for a glorious death in battle. Phyrexia was eager to grant that wish.
"I can preserve ten lives by taking one."
They sneer at the terrestrial dangers found on peaks and shores, eager to prove themselves against new and even mightier foes.
It sleeps with its claws open.
Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected.
"How will you fight an enemy that cares nothing for itself?" —The Blind Seer
It took Yavimaya a thousand years to breed them, but it took only seconds for them to prove their worth.
"Breathe deep, Dominaria. Breathe deep and die." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
"Birds reach all parts of the world," said Barrin. "They will make excellent scouts."
Unlike many hunters, these panthers have no need for camouflage. They're fast enough to catch any prey.
The storm wasn't an omen. It was the fulfillment of one.
Her armor and steed were borrowed, but her courage was hers alone.
Dominarians gladly fought alongside kavu . . . until the kavu figured out some Dominarians were quite tasty.
"I think she wants us to eat it," said Squee, staring at the oily carcass the cheetah had dragged to their fire.
"You helped save my people from a Phyrexian fate. Did you think I wouldn't return the favor?" —Eladamri, to Gerrard
"I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer."
"Are they on our side?" asked Sisay. "If they kill Phyrexians they are," replied Gerrard.
"Beneath her scars, Dominaria's beauty yet shines." —Multani, maro-sorcerer
"You think you can stop me?" hissed Tsabo. "I think I can kill you," replied Gerrard.
"You can build a perfect machine out of imperfect parts." —Urza
They stop for nothing, not even the end of a battle.
Her leadership forged the Weatherlight's finest crew.
"Only vengeance matters now." —Barrin
Darigaaz decided his foe would be more useful as a weapon.
Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities.
"Life can be found in all things, even things unnatural." —Multani, maro-sorcerer
"From shards and splinters I call forth my living horde." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"Don't laugh. It works." —Yavimaya ranger
"If only an angel's wings could shelter us all." —Barrin
"Your presumption is your downfall."
Llanowar forges weapons of steel. Yavimaya grows her weapons within.
"Dominaria touches us all." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
In Yavimaya, flying low to join a battle can be a costly mistake.
The fruit of this fabled tree takes on the flavor of whatever food you love most.
Protected by druids for untold centuries, the forest began to return the favor.
The plagues robbed Dominaria of all but its dreams. Eladamri hoped dreams were enough.
Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life.
Under Yavimaya's peaceful facade beat the hearts of many savage beasts.
"I have chosen my path. Who will walk it with me?" —Eladamri
"My army took centuries to gather," remarked Urza. "Yavimaya seems to conjure hers out of thin air."
"We hid such stockpiles all over Rath. We should continue that practice here." —Lin Sivvi
"All that matters is the path ahead."
All elvenkind stood against Phyrexia. The Quirion nation deployed its most spiritual adepts, who wielded the power of their native soil.
"Gaea's memory is eternal, and she exists in all things." —Molimo, maro-sorcerer
"I've journeyed across Dominaria. Phyrexians are everywhere. Plague is everywhere. There's no place left to hide."
"The world calls and I answer."
"Let my strength harden your resolve."
Llanowar rallied around Eladamri's banner and united in his name.
For the first time, elves welcomed Benalish soldiers into the forest with something other than arrows.
As a dark rain of Phyrexians fell from the sky, fountains of kavu erupted from the ground.
The appearance of the first kavu surprised Multani. As they continued to emerge, he no longer had any doubts about Yavimaya's ability to defend herself.
"They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted." —Urza
"It took magic to extract one of the stones and five people to carry it." —Tolarian research notes
No spot in nature is truly barren.
As Phyrexians descended, Multani paused to reflect on the beauty that might never be seen again.
"For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high." —Skyshroud hymn
"The mongoose blew out its candle and was asleep in bed before the room went dark." —Llanowar fable
"The battlefield is cluttered enough. Be still." —Multani, maro-sorcerer
The power of the wild, concentrated in a single charge.
"All this time I thought Squee was useless," chuckled Sisay. "Who knew he'd be such a good shot?"
"They've returned for the mana rig, but it no longer belongs to them." —Viashino bey
"I can't imagine how anyone lives in Shiv, let alone why they choose to stay." —Sisay
"Fire is the universal language." —Jhoira, master artificer
"Think of the problems we'll face if you uproot entire continents," said Urza. "I have," replied Teferi, "but the alternative is worse."
"They certainly are well protected. Too bad for them they're not well balanced." —Sisay
Its slime liquefies the ground as efficiently as its fangs shred prey.
Fierce when roused, this breed of kavu is easily distracted by a strong voice or melodic tune.
"The blood of your ancestors ran heavy on this soil. Now it's your turn to sacrifice for the glory of Shiv." —Viashino heretic
"This is a battle of pawns, for the highest stakes imaginable." —Urza
It's not eager to lose the other eye.
"Its gems didn't stop pulsating until they were completely removed." —Tolarian research notes
"I know how this one feels," said Urza. "It's not like others of its kind and has been shunned for its differences."
"Let my passion spur your victory."
For his family, Barrin made a funeral pyre of Tolaria.
"Remember me?" Tahngarth roared. "Now I'll repay you for my stay on Rath"
"Forget it. I'm not getting up today."
Broken and punctured by dozens of Phyrexian portals, the angry sky began to spit lightning back at the world.
The kavu evolved for centuries deep inside Dominaria, and some can draw from its strength.
Kavu emerged all across Dominaria, but the first and the strongest came from Yavimaya.
The spread of its hood eclipses all hope.
"Isn't he on our side?" "Yep." "Why's he spyin' on us?" "Don't ask."
A skilled ranger can glance at the mud on your boots and tell where you last camped.
"All my life I've fought these monsters. Today I finish that fight." —Barrin
"The invasion has awoken slumbering mountains," noted Urza. "Good. We can use all the help we can get."
Those with the ability to change their nature survived Phyrexia's biological attacks. Everything else died.
A writhing mass of rot, with sharp claws and a vicious spirit.
A chilling fog with teeth of ice.
Twilight falls. We rise. —Necropolis inscription
"Their arrival marks the end of Yawgmoth's subtlety." —Urza
"No, you get the water. I ain't thirsty." —Squee
The cruelest strain of plague keeps its hosts alive long enough to return home and infect their families.
"The Phyrexians have progressed," admired Urza. "Their parts are interchangeable."
As Barrin exhumed his daughter's body, he finally realized the full price of his faith in Urza.
"Death is such an exquisite sensation." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
Nothing is sacred to the rats. Everything is simply another meal.
Benalia was only the first nation victimized by Tsabo Tavoc's specialized killers.
It desires only to help others shed the itchy wet skin of life.
"It is Yawgmoth's will incarnate: an efficient machine that replaces inefficient flesh." —Tsabo Tavoc
After encountering them, Squee finally lost his appetite for bugs.
Barrin waited for the nausea to pass or for Urza to say something else. He waited in vain.
"They ride our trails as if they were designed to," said the guard. "They were," replied Gerrard.
"Let my hate fuel your fury."
In the dark, it's nearly invisible—until it exhales.
Fouler than a necromancer's kiss. —Jamuraan expression
"I'd strip away the world to see what's under it, but I'd never just leave it to these Phyrexian parasites and their false god." —Urborg witch
Serra's living warriors looked on in horror. "Where is our Lady now?" they cried.
Misery, filth, disease—all things that bring suffering to the world—only make Phyrexians more dangerous.
Once an angel, now an abomination.
Death's embrace need not be cold.
"Urborg's magic is strong. Did Urza send you to protect us or to protect against us?" —Urborg witch, to Barrin
"Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
"Older specimens are completely encrusted with gems, which serve as both armor and weapons." —Tolarian research notes
"I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge." —Urborg witch
"I knew this day would come," said Urza. Looking at the destruction, Barrin sighed, "You don't have to revel in it."
"Rest now. You've neither won nor lost, but this battle is over for you just the same." —Teferi
Not choosing sides in a war can be dangerous—but lucrative.
"Deceit is the heart of war."
Young tower drakes quickly learn to maneuver among Benalia's many spires.
Beneath the waves, things appear the way merfolk want them to.
"I suggest you take a closer look." —Tidal visionary
"Let my wisdom give you wings."
"This strange new beast makes for an excellent meal. Get me more." —Empress Galina
"Wings are but fins for swimming the sky." —Empress Galina
"The subject's wings are clearly vestigial. We suspect the gems somehow keep it aloft." —Tolarian research notes
"You aren't invited."
Children claim no two feathers are exactly the same color, then eagerly gather them for proof.
"We need alternatives, Hanna," yelled Gerrard. "Now"
"Rise, metathran. You shall serve a nobler cause in death." —Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general
"Those who know only one path to victory can never hope to triumph." —The Blind Seer
"I don't have time for you right now." —Teferi
"We define the boundaries of reality; they don't define us." —Teferi
"Above the waves you may be mighty indeed, but down here you belong to me."
Whether for good or ill, their arrival always means change.
Gerrard savored a grim smile as the Phyrexian portals disappeared behind the Weatherlight.
Teferi wanted no part of Urza's battle plans, but both agreed the Phyrexian portal must be closed.
"I think he sees more than he lets on." —Gerrard
"Strength in numbers? I think not." —Gerrard
Its stature and stride increase with each step it takes.
"If I do nothing else, I will protect my people." —Teferi
All Dominarians agreed on one thing: they would not go down without a fight.
"Let my hope be your shield."
"Our victory must come from all of Dominaria, or it will not come." —Urza
"It could be worse," said Gerrard, looking around. "Well, maybe not."
A beacon of hope for a battered army.
"Everything is in place. Nothing can happen that isn't part of my plan." —Urza
As healers battled each plague, they learned more about the next.
"Hanna would give up her own life before she'd abandon the Weatherlight." —Sisay
"Do griffins fight to defend their homes or purely for sport?" —Sisay
No matter how righteous the cause, it helps to bring along some muscle.
Urza convinced many Dominarians not only to set aside their differences, but to embrace them.
The truthful will stand in the gaze of death and escape unharmed. —Obsidian acolyte creed
"Not everyone gets a second chance." —Hanna
"Will history remember this as the day demons arrived or the day saviors arrived?" —Barrin
"At least they remember me." —Gerrard
"The earth shook, the sky rained fire, and it seemed the world was ending." —Benalish refugee
"We turned to see where the blow came from and saw only a distant light." —Capashen lord
"Serra's light isn't easily extinguished." —Reya Dawnbringer
"My only dream is to destroy the nightmares of others."
The faithful will walk through streams of fire and emerge unscathed. —Crimson acolyte creed
Capashen riders were stern and humorless even before their ancestral home was reduced to rubble.
An angel's sword impales only the body; her righteousness penetrates the soul.
"I'm up here. You're down there. Now who's the lower life form?"
The detailed dispatch could be summarized in four words: "Time is running out."
"Healing is a gift the divine ones have shared with us. It is a sacred trust."
"In times like these, people need to be reminded of compassion." —Sisay
"Its stones seem to serve a healing function, but removing them intact is an exhausting process." —Tolarian research notes
"If only we could so easily leave behind those parts of ourselves that pain us." —Crovax
"I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
When the gorilla playfully grabbed the wurm's tail, the wurm doubled back and playfully ate the gorilla's head.
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a spider without an appetite." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the striders' territory.
"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.
Most spiders wait patiently for their prey to arrive. Most spiders aren't forty feet tall.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
With his newfound sense of self-importance, Squee set his sights on ever-bigger bugs.
Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin.
Love is like a rhino, short-sighted and hasty; if it cannot find a way, it will make a way. —Femeref adage
"When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
"Most wizards consider a thunderbolt to be a proper retort." —Ertai, wizard adept
Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift. —Suq'Ata saying
Music scythes the savage beast.
Lightning tethers souls to the world. —Kor saying
While it's true most dragons are cruel, the Shivan dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick."
"Catch!"
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
"He's big an' dumb an' ready to fight. A lot like ol' Hornhead here." —Squee, goblin cabin hand, scouting report
"The cyclops shrugged off savage blows, but casual insults made him weep." —Azeworai, "The Cyclops who Couldn't"
The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.
"This monstrosity will do—for now." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"The nightstalkers are such a minor power in Urborg. Their sad eagerness to elevate themselves makes them willing tools in the plundering of little Femeref." —Kaervek
"Angels are simply extensions of truth upon the fabric of life—and there is far more dark than light." —Baron Sengir
Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home, As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled.
"There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail." —Volrath
"Only fools believe they will face my armies but once." —Kaervek
"no home no heart no hope" —Stronghold graffito
Awake and awing in the blink of an eye.
Afterward, Tolaria's winds were like the whispers of lost wizards, calling for life.
Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again." —Teferi
During the giant crabs' mating season, Skyshroud nights are filled with the clatter of their skirmishes.
"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives." —Ertai, wizard adept
"I've seen fog so thick you could cut it, but none that could cut me." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"You know you've angered the gods when the clouds turn against you." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
As elusive as the footprint of a djinn —Suq'Ata expression
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments victory was mine." —Gustha Ebbasdotter Kjeldoran royal mage
Students who had seen Rayne argue with Urza were certain she had summoned it to make him seem warmer by comparison.
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
Living metal encasing dying flesh.
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
To hone swords and dull minds. —Whetstone inscription
The key did not work on a single lock, yet it opened many doors.
"Uh, does anyone have a flute?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
When the mighty sleep, the lowly prowl.
Ramos bled, and there was fire.
Pass me from soul to soul, / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls. —Totem inscription (translated)
The Brothers' War scarred the land, but Ashnod left her mark in the bloodlines of those she tortured.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"Mold could catch you." —Suq'Ata insult
"Mold could catch you." —Suq'Ata insult
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust." —Oracle en-Vec
Fire never dies alone.
"At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end." —Barrin
Part prison, part home.
"We've managed to keep the goblins in their assigned areas, but there's little we can do about the smell." —Whip Tongue, viashino technician
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing. —Druids' saying
"My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain." —Barb Tail, viashino heretic
"To the tutors, a 'poem of sand' was of little account, a 'poem of ivory,' priceless." —Afari, Tales
Karn said nothing—he just grasped the powerstone and squeezed tightly. The wild flashing ceased.
He craves only one commodity.
"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit." —Barrin, progress report
"The solution can hide for only so long." —Urza
"I see more than others do because I know where to look." —Saprazzan vizier
"Temper, temper." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Temper, temper" —Ertai, wizard adept
The most effective way to destroy a spell is to ensure it was never cast in the first place.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol." —Serra
"I wonder how it feels to be bored." —Jhoira, artificer
"I am the unraveler, the loosened thread that will not hold." —Seal inscription
Rising waters, sinking hope.
Motivation was high in the academy once students realized flunking their exams could kill them.
"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes." —Volrath
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." —Daudi, Femeref tutor
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." —Daudi, Femeref tutor
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." —Seal inscription
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." —Seal inscription
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." —Seal inscription
Treasures, trinkets, trash—the relics of the past are brought forth again.
Perception is more pleasing than truth.
Jamuraa's rhystic mages treat magic as their garden, uprooting unwanted spells as bothersome weeds.
The strength of law is unwavering. It is an iron bar in a world of water.
Dark is light and day is night When the winter moon shines.
"All mages dip into the same well; some are just in more of a hurry." —Alexi, zephyr mage
When you have given everything, then you have everything to gain. —Well inscription
When you have given everything, then you are capable of anything. —Well inscription
Though it moves like a living thing, anyone can tell it lacks a soul—not to mention mercy.
"When Serra made angels, people called her a goddess. My angels are far superior to hers." —Latulla, Keldon overseer
After a chimeric idol attacked them, the Keldons smashed all unfamiliar statues.
A thousand wings beating as one can choke the sky itself.
The hunted can become the fiercest hunters.
"The fifth wind of ascension is Exalter, fulfilling Keld's destiny." —Keld Triumphant
"The snapper is still when all else moves And strikes when all are dozing." —Tales of the Vintara Forest
Trained with the aid of rhystic magic, they become uneasy in its absence.
Jolrael tends the land so that the land will tend the beasts.
"We wait and watch, and as we prepare for war, we grow strong."
It destroys everything in its path, including the path itself.
"Gnawed to death. Bad way to go."
The end of one life is merely the beginning of thousands more.
If they could replenish the land instead of draining it, Jamuraa would be teeming with them.
The Vintara Forest welcomes its enemies with a crushing embrace.
Everything it sees it considers food—and with that many eyes, it's not liable to miss much.
As a rite of passage, Kipamu youths taunt razorbacks with long sticks . . . then flee.
Cities have crumbled under its weight.
Though a powerful constrictor, it prefers simply to drown its prey.
Keldons were accustomed to rugged terrain, but they never expected it to be aggressive.
"War destroys; nature renews." —Jolrael, empress of beasts
"I need no army. I have Jamuraa."
Legend has it the darba gave up its wings in return for an extra stomach.
The chattering forest fell silent as the otherworldly song began.
There's no difference between bone and crystal when it's piercing your throat.
Keldon soldiers learn to move faster than the whip.
Death awaits them on both fronts.
Grapplers hunt in packs, driving their victims over steep mountain cliffs.
"The first wind of ascension is Forger, burning away impurity." —Keld Triumphant
There's no rest for a Keldon.
Like a volcano, it too can erupt without warning.
While armies battled across Jamuraa, beasts stalked the high places looking for victims.
Sometimes everyone decides to go for help at the same time.
Trod on by a gargadon —Kipamu expression meaning "wiped out"
"Everything around her suffers." —Haddad, Kipamu soldier
"If there isn't enough of Jamuraa left to stand on, I will still claim it for Keld." —Latulla, Keldon overseer
They fight beyond thought, beyond fear, and beyond mercy.
"Fields can be replanted. Settlements can be rebuilt. Burn it all." —Latulla, Keldon overseer
Wound, maim, kill: it's all the same to a Keldon.
Flame chooses its own course.
They turn geological upheaval into tactical advantage.
"You're willing to die for your homeland. I'm willing to kill for it." —Latulla, Keldon overseer
"Battle is our religion. This fortress is our temple." —Latulla, Keldon overseer
"They no longer care about their own suffering. Show them something worse." —Latulla, Keldon overseer
"The sword or the lash. Choose." —Akul, Keldon whip sergeant
Wherever they went, the Keldons transformed the land into a weapon.
Pity the tailor.
What wall can never be climbed, but is always scaled? —Nakaya riddle
With each grunt of pain from Haddad, Greel's grin widened.
Everyone is manipulated. It's just more obvious with the dead.
Any lock can be undone, any secret revealed.
Jamuraan wizards are linked together by magic, a bond that only the wicked dare exploit.
The problem with mercenaries is that if you can buy their loyalty, others can too.
"The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy." —Keld Triumphant
As the strange plague ravaged Jamuraa, the fiends multiplied.
This plague chooses its victims.
Ultimately, it became a three-way battle: the land attacked both armies.
Made strong by reckless magic. Made horrid by reckless strife.
Greel's grin is far less loathsome than his touch.
"You're Latulla's gift to me, and I always play with my presents."
The Keldons would never admit it, but Greel unsettles them, too.
As silent as a shadow, and just as hard to flee.
First death. Then Shauku.
Nothing could grow where the vile smoke had been, and no one could breathe it and live.
It vents the chill of the grave.
The ground won't accept them.
Mortal minds shrivel at its touch.
"When the bog walks, the wise run." —Erissa, bog witch
"Go ahead. Take it. You'll be so very powerful . . . and what harm can it do?"
"We outnumber them! Charge! Charge! Hey, where'd you guys go? Retreat! Retreat!"
These nimble ships were designed for hit-and-run tactics.
As erratic and turbulent as a summer squall.
The land is heavy with promise, the harvest ripe with betrayal.
When eagles leave the sky, sailors leave the sea.
It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic.
"The spell will have to wait," said Alexi, pointing up. "Drakes."
Many travelers have wandered into a fog only to find that it had teeth, claws, and an appetite.
All snakes slither. Only this one soars.
Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you need to know.
"The trick is to ask when no one's listening." —Alexi, zephyr mage
"I'll rain down on you with the power of magic itself. Then we'll see who prevails." —Alexi, zephyr mage
"Are you sure you want to do that?"
"Ogg hit wall. Ogg no kill wall. Ogg hate wall!"
The Kipamu League knew what Keld refused to acknowledge: the land could support no more.
The scent of magic can rob you of your senses, blinding you to the world.
"It startles me how alive one feels on the edge of death." —Barrin, master wizard
They hide in dreams and whispers and faraway thoughts.
If it could capture the power it wastes, it would be invincible.
"There are secrets out there begging to be rediscovered. We just need to look in the right places." —Teferi, planeswalker
"The third wind of ascension is Eliminator, clearing Keld's path to victory." —Keld Triumphant
Jamuraan farmers fear three things above all else: droughts, floods, and hornclaws.
"Doesn't look like much, does it?" —Alexi, zephyr mage
The Keldons didn't know her name, but they still cursed her in battle.
"Which is worse: nothing to defend, or no one to defend it?"
The Keldons took several of the steeds as trophies of war. They'd never seen such a light beast stand so firm.
Most soldiers think of the sword as a weapon. In the hands of Zho monks, swords are also the strongest of shields.
She seeks the warmth of the living.
The harder your strike, the stronger her defense.
"It matters not if the gods hear my prayers. Jamuraa does."
Our war is against suffering, not against those who cause it. —Samite creed
A shield for one is good. A shield for everyone is even better.
The circle buys time—an important commodity in battle.
"To arms! To arms! The Lion roars!"
"Enemies can be your weapons or your shields. Simply show them which they are." —The Teachings of Zho
"The Keldons may have explosive tempers, but I have explosives."
The problem with rebels is that they so quickly reject authority.
When the Lion roars, his cubs grow stronger. —Kipamu saying
In the jungle of war there is always a Lion.
As he knows all the world completely, the world refuses him harm.
Some lands are soothing, and their peace can be felt in the soul.
"Creation is no great feat. Anything you make, I can unmake in a heartbeat." —Alexi, zephyr mage
"Tell me again," said Latulla, raising her fist, "how just one woman held back an entire Keldon platoon."
To outrace the griffin —Kipamu expression meaning "to do the impossible"
"The fourth wind of ascension is Anointer, deifying the worthy." —Keld Triumphant
Jamuraa's rhystic mages treat magic as their garden, uprooting unwanted spells as bothersome weeds.
As war raged on, the young mages became more direct in their tactics, often at great cost.
It takes no prisoners, but it keeps the choicest bits for Phyrexia.
The forest lives in the elf as the elf lives in the forest.
"I am that merry wanderer of the night." —William Shakespeare, A Midsummer Night's Dream
The nightstalkers' little game of tease-the-squirrel suddenly took an unexpected turn.
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ." —The Bible, Mark 5:13
All orggs know how to kill; training teaches them what to kill.
Assault and battery included.
Just because they have a club doesn't mean they're organized.
Meant to cut through the body and burn straight to the soul.
The touch of death is never gentle.
Its swamp cousin may be meaner, but the vizzerdrix is much bigger.
Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.
Where air meets water, fish meets talon.
At the sight of the thing the calamari vendor's eyes went wide, but from fear or avarice none could tell.
Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
Hunter by instinct, weapon by training.
". . . Before honor is humility." —The Bible, Proverbs 15:33
The enthusiasm of the young, sharpened by the discipline of a soldier.
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
"This may hurt a lot."
"This may hurt a little."
"The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more." —Oracle en-Vec
"The best I can offer is a temporary reprieve." —Belbe
Success is largely a matter of knowing which lever to pull.
Airborne flowstone isn't less dangerous, only less common.
"This wasteful design cannot possibly be Phyrexian." —Belbe
The fight will continue on a new battlefield.
It protects her from the ravages of Phyrexia and the savages of Rath.
"Sit. Heel! Down! HELP!"
Gravity is truly what you make of it.
"The thunder of hooves is music to my ears."
"It's OK. They're just elves."
The forest's constant struggle is to keep the spreading flowstone at bay.
"I am the feeder, the morsel that revives the starving." —Seal inscription
The one you see is just a diversion.
One must reap before one can sow.
The more you look at it, the more dangerous it becomes.
"Why should one limit oneself to the resources at hand?"
Realizing they weren't getting past the fog, the elves did the only thing they could do: wait.
Only the elves know where the woods end and the woodworm begins.
Irony is getting walked on by the earth instead of the other way around.
You have to admire its enthusiasm.
"I am the romancer, the passion that consumes the flesh." —Seal inscription
All creatures have an inner fire. Releasing it can be dangerous.
"They're not worth much, but they're easy to catch."
Three moggs, one treasure, too bad.
They make mountains into mogg holes.
They don't feed; they stoke.
The screams are brief. The silence lingers.
Proximity guarantees injury or death.
They leave a trail of ash and sorrow.
The rebels assaulted the wall, never suspecting the wall would assault back.
The army was never at a loss for weapons; Crovax was their forge.
Aggression exacts its toll.
It may look like soil, but its nature is malice.
The rebels couldn't see where the roar was coming from. Then they saw it was coming from everywhere.
"Someone must have done something very bad to make a rock that angry." —Rebel scout
Crovax hungered for power, and the stronghold devoured the sky.
The ingredients for panic include equal parts danger, uncertainty, and helplessness.
"I stepped out. I did not step down."
"Blood is foul, the flesh dross. My ascendance thirsts for life itself." —Crovax
"Crovax never passes up an opportunity to cause widespread misery." —Belbe
Like most creatures bent on total destruction, they rarely bother to double-check their targets.
These troops are only as strong as the evincar's control.
"I am the banisher, the ill will that snuffs the final candle." —Seal inscription
"I can ail what cures you."
Although the abuse was initially effective, the troops soon became numb to it.
In darkness, the assassin sneaked into the village and destroyed what Eladamri loved most: his daughter.
"I can't think with all that screaming."
"Kill them all and feed them to the new recruits." —Crovax
All that's left is the coronation.
A wall built from the bodies of the enemy will never lack building material in times of war.
Long and powerful, these birds were used to carry messages to and from the evincar.
"Things are going to change around here." —Crovax
The evincar has many ways of keeping track of his subjects.
"If it ain't broke, I'll break it. If it is broke, I'll fix it."
As long as the stronghold controlled the sky, the rebels were doomed.
She stretches the laws of physics until they snap.
He twists the laws of nature until they scream.
Keep watch only for the giants and you'll be eaten by the ants.
It's futile to fight something you can see only in the corner of your eye.
"I am the unraveler, the loosened thread that will not hold." —Seal inscription
"They can't feel pain. They just wiggle 'cause they're scared."
Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever.
Rising waters, sinking hope.
Denizens of Rath had never seen the moon before. It was a symbol of change, not constancy.
"I'm constantly amazed by the tenacity of living creatures on this plane. Even in the stronghold's white-hot core, life persists." —Ertai
Getting in was the easy part. Getting out proved to be more difficult.
Rootwater has become as dangerous to its denizens as to its enemies.
"I've come to reclaim what is mine. And you, Greven, are mine." —Volrath
Random mutations among Rootwater merfolk were common—and disturbing.
"Creatures fade in and out of existence. It's an unfortunate side effect. The losses are tolerable." —Belbe
"I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you." —Takara, to Eladamri
"Above them all is Truth, and Truth must be set free. If the wings of Truth are clipped, the voices will fall silent." —Song of All, canto 167
"Let all witness the fate of those who defy me." —Crovax
Trapped in safety is still trapped.
Hands weave life and death; Intertwining spirits knit Tapestries and shrouds.
Simple wooden staff Made from life, protecting life, Stronger than cold steel.
"I am the purifier, the light that clears all shadows." —Seal inscription
The future isn't sacred, but its speaker is.
A heavy weapon deals plenty of damage—but it does have to hit.
Soldiers will always endanger their lives to defend many other lives.
The wizard's vocabulary of mogg profanities increased with every net she cast.
One thought opens a thousand eyes. One sun brings a thousand dawns. —Lightbringer creed
One injustice starts a thousand riots. One law stops a thousand crimes. —Lawbringer creed
Those it won't scare, it scars.
The Oracle told Eladamri he would save his people by abandoning them. His followers adopted that ideal.
The clearest commands are practical examples.
"Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light."
Camargue, France
Steppe Tundra, Russia
Mont Blanc, France
White Cliffs of Dover, U.K.
Nottingham Forest, U.K.
Lake District National Park, U.K.
Lowlands, Netherlands
Pyrenees, Spain
Venezia, Italy
Brocéliande, France
Ardennes Fagnes, Belgium
Scottish Highlands, U.K.
Vesuvio, Italy
Danish Island, Scandinavia
Schwarzwald, Germany
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs.
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. —Suq'Ata saying
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." —Daudi, Femeref tutor
"Temper, temper." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"We decide who is worthy of our works." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying! —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
Lightning tethers souls to the world. —Kor saying
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I? —Femeref riddle
If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu. —Roya, Zhalfirin archer
But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war. —Afari, Tales
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it." —Barrin, master wizard
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings." —William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire." —Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat
At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . . .
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Troll chant
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me." —Xantcha, to Gix
These are its last days. But it will not go quietly.
Although the elves of Argoth always considered them a nuisance, the pixies made fine allies during the war against the machines.
"And darkness shall be cast from me For my soul resides in the Sun." —Femeref dirge
Kerrick's corrupt domain swelled like a blister on Tolaria's skin.
The viashino knew of the cracked pipes but deliberately left them unmended to bolster the rig's defenses.
Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost. —Vec teaching
The true names of birds are songs woven into their souls.
"Children of the Ruins, raised to be warriors, know that life begins when another speaks their names." —Soltari Tales of Life
"Civilization is a conspiracy to disguise the mutilation of nature." —Skyshroud elite creed
The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error.
You lie down with rats, and the rats run away. —Suq'Ata insult
"We shun them not for their dream but for their refusal to let such a noble dream die a noble death." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.
"Protect our mother in her womb."
Serra told them to guard Urza as he healed. Five years they stood.
"First blood isn't as important as last blood." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the Predator. "It is Greven's mind manifest."
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war." —Afari, Tales
"You will learn to earn death." —Volrath
"Heel."
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
Occasionally members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
" . . . And the third little boar built his house out of rootwalla plates . . . ." —Skyshroud children's story
"No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on me?" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
"He cocooned himself alone in his workshop for months. When he finally emerged, all broad grins and excited chatter, I knew he'd found his answer." —Barrin, master wizard
"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My Betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say." —Jolrael
"A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Water is firmament to the finned." —Oracle en-Vec
Only by sacrificing any semblance of defense could Gerrard best Greven.
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy." —Volrath
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
A lightning elemental once killed an entire tribe of merfolk—simply by going for a swim.
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the Lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war." —Telim'Tor
It's not known whether the Thran built the device to forge their wonders or to defend them.
They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons.
"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield." —Vibekke Ragnild, Witches and War
Visitors to Shiv fear the dragons, the goblins, or the viashino. Natives fear the ants.
The forest was too lush for the brothers to despoil—almost.
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change." —Sitrik, birth priest
Bring the spear of ancient briar; Bring the torch to light the pyre. Bring the one who trod our ground; Bring the spade to dig his mound.
"Teferi is a problem student. Always late for class. No appreciation for constructive use of time." —Barrin, progress report
"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.
". . . But I'm not tired!"
They are Phyrexia's couriers; the messages they carry are inscribed on their slick hides.
Radiant's eyes flashed. "Go, then," the angel spat at Serra, "and leave this world to those who truly care."
Its windpipe is only the first to amplify its maddening laughter.
"I think I used up all my good luck and all my bad luck in the same fall." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!" —Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
Little dreamt could seem so cruel As waiting for the wings outspread, The jagged teeth, the burning eyes, And dagger-claws that clench to nerves.
"I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits." —Tahlil en-Dal, bounty hunter
Sharpen your ears —Elvish expression meaning "grow wiser"
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
If only every message were as perfect as its bearer.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
"The soldier's path is worn smooth by the tread of many feet—all in one direction, none returning." —Oracle en-Vec
Like the city, weakest at its foundation.
Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you.
If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world.
It is the hub. We are the wheel. —Dryad saying
Ramos smiled, and there was day.
Ramos fell, and there was night.
Everything comes to the waterfront eventually, on the tide or on credit.
The puffer's flesh is the deadliest in the sea—and therefore the most useful.
As he repaired the ship's planeswalking engine, Karn saw for the first time how he could catalyze the Weatherlight's evolution.
A drop numbs the tongue. A sip sends the heart racing. A draught reforges the body.
One may as well chart the clouds as try to map Mercadia.
"The only way to get Mercadians to fight on the front lines is to give them really long weapons." —Gerrard
Ramos touched, and there was life.
"This horn is an exact replica of the fabled Horn of Ramos, except mine is more lavish." —Mercadian magistrate
Like so many Thran relics, the wurm engine kept operating long after its creators were gone.
Ramos bled, and there was fire.
A uniform fit for a goblin.
Ramos wept, and there were seas.
The magistrate seems to prefer a distorted perspective of reality.
Mercadian soldiers excel at finding things to stand behind.
Although it looks like a game, business around the table is deadly serious.
A steel snake with ten thousand teeth.
"We protect our own with our own."
A pretty little death is still death.
The dryads need neither size nor strength to defeat their enemies in battle.
Sisay had been restored to her place on the ship, the Legacy had been recovered, and the Weatherlight was sailing home to Dominaria. Gerrard focused on the debts he'd settled . . . and on those he'd soon collect.
Cho-Arrim martial artists emulate the beasts of their home.
Like the dryads, the forest itself willingly gives up some of its life for the sake of the future.
"Squall, gale, hurricane—it's all a matter of size . . . and price."
The air that holds them aloft can just as easily put them down.
Saprolings always thrive on the ruins of others, and Mercadia ruins more than most.
It hardly weighs anything, but it takes all day to remove.
There's little advantage to surprising the gahr.
If the ground is smooth, the way will be rough. —Deepwood saying
To see one is a good omen to the Cho-Arrim.
They stay on the battlefield only long enough to consume the losers.
When generals gather their armies, healers gather their herbs.
Rushwood is a living jewel that reflects its dwellers' hearts.
Gerrard's heart ached, recalling the living wreath Mirri laid for her dead kin. No such memorial was left for her in Rath.
Only Rushwood is vast enough to swallow this creature whole.
As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army.
Deepwood's reach is not long, so it invites its enemies in.
The satyr carves the path that all of Rushwood follows. —Cho-Arrim saying
"I can feel the strength of the entire forest." —Gerrard
Just one can feed a dozen people for a month.
"If I says it's a troll, it's a troll. Goblins is always right in Mercadia." —Squee
Whereas the rebels fight to defend the land, they work to renew it.
"You lot go on ahead. I'll keep killing them until it sticks." —Tahngarth
Unlike scorpions, the erithizon isn't immune to its own weaponry.
The magical dust clouds Mercadian mages use to traverse the plane generate storms that devastate the surrounding terrain. But as long as the storms don't touch the mountain, the nobles simply don't care.
The jhovalls are depleting its food sources, the Mercadians are eroding its home, and you're wondering why it's angry?
A single tantiv is just as dangerous as a herd.
They'd guarded the Henge so long that they were as attuned to the powerstones as they were to the trees.
His drums echo Deepwood's heartbeat.
With his newfound sense of self-importance, Squee set his sights on ever-bigger bugs.
Morning's mists can hide many things.
Gerrard knew little of Ramos, the sky god they worshiped. But he felt the power of the chant.
Even the wasp knows how to pay the magistrate his due respect.
As easily as the dryads could close a fist, so could the branches and underbrush entangle.
Its eyes are bigger than its stomach, but its mouth is larger still.
The masks, like the ancient trees they're grown from, lend strength to the dryads.
Jhovalls sharpen their claws on trees—or on Mercadians, if no trees are handy.
Cho-Manno had never seen Mercadia City's forces fight so well. The magistrate must have hired a new hero.
Funny how money and war travel so well together.
The rhythm isn't a call to arms, but a signal that the goblins have made a new enemy.
The Cho-Arrim call it "the fury of Ramos."
Cho-Manno knew he had no choice but to ally with Gerrard. If that's what it took to free his people, he'd pay the price.
Without a word, Gerrard and Sisay ran deeper into the mountain. Neither of them intended to leave Mercadia without the Weatherlight and its crew.
Bit by bit, Mercadia City had forced the Cho-Arrim from their ancestral lands. They would be pushed no further.
Only the foolish and the rich build their houses where the land is thin and the ocean is near.
The return of Ramos was foretold by devastating natural disasters and unnatural storms.
"General?!" Tahngarth roared. "General nuisance, maybe."
Explosions ripped through the ship overhead, and those unfortunate enough to be directly below scrambled to find cover.
When goblins blow themselves up, it's called stupidity. When humans do, it's called heroism.
The ground shakes when he walks. His customers shake if they're late with his fee.
The Kyren goblins created most of the inverted mountain's tunnels simply by driving the beast before them.
In pursuit of the juicy fly, Squee stumbled on the hidden hangar.
"What was heads again?" —Mercadian magistrate
He doesn't have to be smart—his masters only ever give him one command.
With an explosion that shook the foundation of the city, the Weatherlight burst from the underground hangar.
The magistrate had been the goblins' puppet for so long that he made the right decisions with little prompting.
Cho-Arrim righteousness was no match for Benalish combat training.
It's viciously territorial, destroying every creature on the mountain it has chosen to consume.
Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs.
Kyren goblins always act behind the scenes—even in battle.
Kyren goblins always speak in questions and never allow wrong answers.
Mercadia's Kyren goblins are the opposite of Dominarian goblins: they're smart and cowardly.
Her blade draws blood without ever touching its target.
When he's holding the hammers, everything looks like a nail.
Had Gerrard realized he'd end up fighting against them, he might not have trained them so well.
"Does it burn, Saprazzan? Do you wish you had never raised arms against us?" —Kyren overseer
"It's not Talruum crystal, but I must admit—it gets the job done." —Tahngarth
Gerrard shook his head as the ground rushed to meet him. "This," he thought, "is not the start I was hoping for."
It follows the strongest leader—the one with the longest whip.
The Mercadians' ineptitude in close combat sometimes accidentally pays off.
Their rage can grow to such proportions that they explode in a cloud of fire.
"These guards are the most disciplined military unit in the city. They couldn't fight their way out of a broom closet, but they've got discipline." —Gerrard, to Sisay
One fleet was gone; others were poised.
Anything can happen when patience is scarce and wine is abundant.
"Don't get up. I'll show myself out."
The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision.
He has the weapons, he has the connections, and he knows the hangar's dark secret.
It reflects only nightmares.
Starke knew the voice was Takara's, but the venom was Volrath's.
The weight of death is heavy but not immovable.
Young wumpuses are malevolent and vicious—but they grow out of it.
"No, I insist—let me carry all that heavy jewelry."
As he gritted his teeth to focus through the pain, Tahngarth glanced at Takara. She seemed completely unaffected.
Driven by masters more terrible than the Mercadians could imagine, the dark overseers would pay any price to keep their shipwrights working.
Squee watched his Kyren cousins fall with a mixture of sympathy and relief.
In the Cateran guild, being caught is a capital offense.
She feels no need to disturb her victim's slumber.
"With the proper tools, even the Great River can be dammed." —Ta-Spon, Cho-Arrim executioner
Silence costs extra. Breaking it costs extra still.
"Not even the magistrate in his lofty tower is out of our reach." —Cateran overlord
Mercadian elitism is reinforced daily by physical position: their neighbors are literally beneath them and are treated accordingly.
"Do you want to be alive or whole?" —Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer
His mind, like his body, is made up of the swamp's flotsam.
The surest way to lose your holdings is to plead for them in Mercadia City's courts.
He wears his infamy like a fine silk shirt.
It roams in both the worlds of the living and the dead but belongs to neither.
Shed harpy feathers leave painful wounds—which explains the harpies' mood.
You'd scarcely believe they could fly until they drop out of the sky onto you.
Bury old friends deeply, lest they return bearing worms.
"If this is the cure, I'd hate to see the disease." —Orim
Gerrard realized that the helpless woman they'd rescued from Rath was nothing of the sort.
"If they move, kill them. In fact, kill one now to make sure the other understands."
The desecration of their dead makes even the Saprazzans careless.
"Tonight, madam, it's your money and your life."
It seemed as if no one wanted them to reach the Henge of Ramos—not even the dead.
Mercadians not wealthy enough to buy a tomb are thrown into a bog called "the Ghoul's Larder."
The Caterans call it a screening process. The dead are in no condition to argue.
The enforcers make no effort to distinguish gold from flesh.
It wears the souls of its victims like jewels on a chain.
They feed on the living to stay undead.
"Eye of twilight, give us sight. Take our offer, give us might. Make our power tears of night."
His favor comes at a high price.
Even when recruitment is slow, the guild can always cook something up.
Recruits aren't always volunteers.
The Cateran guild prefers to call them "public relations."
The touch of his madness can drive anyone into a killing frenzy.
The world is the body. The mana is the blood. The witch is the surgeon.
They slide over the bog like oil across glass.
One distracts the victim, the other extracts the valuables.
Closing time comes earlier to some than to others.
The worst thing about being a depraved pirate is having to work with a bunch of depraved pirates.
Like the price of goods, the value of the routes was renegotiated daily.
It flees from anything that isn't shaped like a cloud.
To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers.
The dry riverbed became a raging torrent, and the Cho-Arrim claimed their prize.
"Inside these walls, peace; outside, sharks. You choose." —Saprazzan vizier
Any pirate would prefer Rishada's swift and cruel justice to Saprazzo's patient punishments.
The vizier's wisdom proved invaluable in untangling the Mercadian knot of lies.
Rishadan barkeeps know something the Mercadians have yet to learn: if you keep pushing, someone will eventually push back.
Some quick dagger work and then back to the sea—that's the Saprazzan way.
The Saprazzans excel at both tactics: hit and run.
Within the walls of the floating city, Saprazzan wealth is like Saprazzan water: abundant, free-flowing, and accessible to all.
Clients who cheat the sailmonger make an impact on the rest.
"The best things in life are free. Money, for instance."
The bigger the purse, the greater the fool. —Rishadan saying
The view is truly spectacular—as long as you don't look at Rishada itself.
"There may be a few minor additional fees, levies, duties, surtaxes, tariffs, imposts, tolls . . . ."
"It's no challenge to master a Mercadian."
The feet have no eyes. —Saprazzan saying
It's not always clear who's the master and who's the servant.
The youths of Rishada's marketplace are always ready for a quick footrace.
Bend as the wave breaks or it will break you as well. —Saprazzan saying
Don't trust your secrets to the sea.
Beautiful to behold, terrible to be held.
"Go down there and fish him out. Maybe his hide will fetch a price."
The fewer your possessions, the fewer your worries.
Karn said nothing—he just grasped the powerstone and squeezed tightly. The wild flashing ceased.
There is beauty in the space between learning to fly and taking it for granted.
"You say Saprazzo is a city built on water? I hope they have enough to wash the dust from my throat." —Sisay
You might as well try to catch water with a net.
A bribe is always faster than filling out paperwork.
Gerrard was the Mercadian soldiers' greatest hero; they followed him blindly. When he left, they stumbled around blindly.
"Your attack has been rendered harmless. It is, however, quite pretty." —Saprazzan vizier
"I don't like to think of myself as a pirate. I'm more like a stimulator of the local economy."
The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets.
It was Gerrard's nature to lead and the Mercadians' to follow.
What's merely a home for the nautilus can become exquisite jewelry in the hands of Saprazzan artisans.
Saprazzan merfolk become legged on land, but some find it quicker to bring the water with them.
In Mercadia City, loyalties extend only as far as your purse can stretch.
"I see more than others do because I know where to look." —Saprazzan vizier
"I need to get back to Mercadia City," said Sisay. "We can get you there," the vizier answered. "Easily."
The market festival turned out to be the high point of Jaffy's visit.
Successful delivery is not guaranteed.
"It's not what you ask for, but how you ask for it."
Inner conflict can defeat a soldier more quickly than any army.
"How could I catch her when the trees conspired to stop me?"
"The price is written at the bottom of the cup."
"The Mercadians are too busy looking down on us to see us coming." —Cho-Arrim rebel
They are the reflection of Rushwood's glow on the edge of a wooden sword.
The Mercadians were prepared for the guard, but the guard was even more prepared for the Mercadians.
Orim taught Ta-Karnst and the other Cho-Arrim healers a far less invasive method of healing.
"You are the disease that plagues Mercadia. I am the healer's knife that will cut you out."
"There is a great difference between pain and injury." —Cho-Manno
The Cho-Arrim worship life and revere those who've experienced it longest.
Gerrard offered no defense to Orim's condemnation; the mission was under his command, and he was responsible.
The Cho-Arrim fell from the sky onto Mercadia City like a vengeful rain.
Her commands are part rallying cry, part sermon, and wholly undeniable.
"Give me your hand and I will give you victory."
"Cho-Manno guides your spirit. I guide your sword."
The Cho-Arrim believe in leading by example.
The Cho-Arrim make no distinction between healers and soldiers.
Fighting for the right reason is itself a source of strength.
Once you learn to float on the shadows, you'll never fear them again.
Clenched teeth do not bite. —Cho-Arrim saying
"As long as Rushwood glows, no life is ever truly lost." —Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer
The silence commemorates not those who've died, but those about to.
"The River flows. My soul returns."
Don't be fooled by the riders' fluid grace—it takes years of practice to ride these beasts.
War-trained jhovalls eat twice their weight in war-trained soldiers daily.
"I did not choose my role, Orim," said Cho-Manno patiently, "and I suspect Gerrard did not choose his."
A soldier's faith is magic strong enough to protect against any blade.
Cowardice is a term invented by those with no cunning.
"May the River claim Cho-Manno's body, wherever it lies." —Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer
Every Cho-Arrim villager is a potential warrior; when they are called, they abandon their peaceful way of life and take up arms to defend it.
The Cho-Arrim didn't rely only on a secret location to protect their Fountain.
The scepter of power is fragile in a calloused hand. —Cho-Arrim saying
The Cho-Arrim fought Mercadia's decadence with more than just swords.
The crossbow is the ideal weapon for the lazy Mercadians: just point and shoot.
"There is no place for mercy in defense of our lives." —Ta-Spon, Cho-Arrim executioner
Don't step on the livelihood of other vendors, or they may step on you. —Mercadian saying
Mercadia City's troops are at their best when they have no enemy to fight.
"Mercadia's masks can no longer hide the truth. Our day has come at last." —Cho-Manno
He doesn't know why the Cho-Arrim fight the Mercadians, but he's happy to bash heads for them anyway.
Are you sure you can afford such a luxury?
The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation.
Orim had no memory of the previous night—the first thing she could remember was waking up with the dead guard's blood on her hands.
We all must profit for peace to last. —Mercadian saying
Its mortar is mixed with waters straight from the Fountain of Cho.
Funny how money and war travel so well together.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall." —Gamelen, Citanul elder
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead. —Vec tomb inscription
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead. —Vec tomb inscription
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk." —Karn, silver golem
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk." —Karn, silver golem
One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war." —Afari, Tales
Bring the spear of ancient briar; Bring the torch to light the pyre. Bring the one who trod our ground; Bring the spade to dig his mound.
"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"Shiv hatched from a shell of stone around a yolk of flame." —Viashino myth
"One day we shall walk where once was water." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"Shiv may be surrounded by water, but the mountains go far deeper." —Fire Eye, viashino bey
"I got it! I got it! I—"
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation." —Karn, silver golem
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation." —Karn, silver golem
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust." —Oracle en-Vec
"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets." —Shauku, Endbringer
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. —Suq'Ata saying
When the alliance between Balduvia and Kjeldor deprived Stromgald of easy victories, its agents were forced to fuel their rituals with their own flesh.
"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments." —Oracle en-Vec
"My finest warrior was lost to the Phyrexians. I pray that Lady Selenia died honorably." —Radiant, archangel
"While we fought, the il surrendered." —Oracle en-Vec
The seed of a world's evil.
"What we do not use up, we use again." —Urza
"What we do not use up, we use again." —Urza
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
A sphere pushes equally in all directions.
"We decide who is worthy of our works." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus The Grand Evolution began." —Phyrexian Scriptures
Part prison, part home.
It's all fun and games until someone loses an eye.
A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth.
Lightning tethers souls to the world. —Kor saying
"My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain." —Barb Tail, viashino heretic
Gatha survived as long as he did by giving all Keld's predators exactly what they wanted.
"For all the priceless tomes they have destroyed, one would think they would taste better." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late.
The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late.
They exist to cease.
They exist to cease.
"I will flay the skin from your flesh and the flesh from your bones and scrape your bones dry. And still you will not have suffered enough." —Greven il-Vec, to Gerrard
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death." —Phyrexian progress notes
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
The forest lives in the elf as the elf lives in the forest.
It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it.
It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous.
The deeper the wood, the greater its strength.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
"To-night the winds begin to rise . . . The rooks are blown about the skies . . . ." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, In Memoriam
Neither predator nor prey, the elephant chooses its place in the battle.
His true majesty is not in his silver, but in his size.
Death just encourages life the more.
Some trees bear deadly fruit.
"'Air superiority?' Not while our archers scan the skies." —Elvish scout
Every seed planted is another lesson the forest can teach us.
The dying ask for water because they know it contains life.
"I am that merry wanderer of the night." —William Shakespeare, A Midsummer Night's Dream
The nightstalkers' little game of tease-the-squirrel suddenly took an unexpected turn.
Rarely seen, hardly heard, never caught.
Don't worry about provoking grizzly bears; they come that way.
They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons.
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine; and the herd ran violently . . . ." —The Bible, Mark 5:13
Stay alert: his lumbering may shake the ground itself, but in water, he glides.
In its lair lies a carpet of bones.
No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness.
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.
One little goblin shook up the ground. When the dust cleared, no one was found.
All orggs know how to kill; training teaches them what to kill.
Lift your spear as you might lift your glass, and toast your enemy.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
Assault and battery included.
Just because they have a club doesn't mean they're organized.
Meant to cut through the body and burn straight to the soul.
Once they realized the ogre had more size than speed, the soldiers simply went around it.
The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work.
Be it ever so crumbled, there's no place like home.
Goblin mountaineer, barely keeps his family fed.
"I done forgot more than you'll ever know, pipsqueak." "Yeah—that's your problem."
When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back.
The goblins call the gliders "death from above." Everyone else calls them "clods in the clouds."
Lead, follow, or run around like crazy.
With a commando around, somebody's gonna get hurt.
They have to replace the wheels, they have to replace the boar, and sometimes they have to replace the goblin.
They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves.
You are drawn to your death as a moth to the flame.
Its voice has the tremor of deafening thunder, its blow the force of an avalanche.
There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction?
When the sky's rain has turned to fire, what will put it out?
Evil often dines alone.
A hiss before dying.
Luckily for them, it doesn't take much brains to slaughter and maim.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
"Just as some fool said it couldn't get worse, the rats began to show up." —Foot soldier
I howl my soul to the moon, and the moon howls with me.
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
The touch of death is never gentle.
One who goes unpunished never learns. —Greek proverb
Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.
"Our greatest hope has become our enemy's greatest triumph." —Court counselor
A scorpion this big you won't find curled up in your boot. Maybe around your boot, but not in it.
The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon.
The darkness of his shield reflects the inky blackness of his soul.
"Cursed be the sickly forms that err from honest Nature's rule!" —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "Locksley Hall"
"Human tenderness is simply weakness in a pretty package."
When nightstalkers sing, nothing in creation sleeps.
It moved through the troops leaving no footprints, save on their souls.
Those who live amid decay must expect scavengers.
Don't be fooled by their looks. Think of them as little knives with wings.
Knowledge demands sacrifice.
It pays to be at home both on the sea and in the sky.
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings." —William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
The water that a ship sails on is the same water that swallows it up. —Chinese proverb
Its swamp cousin may be meaner, but the vizzerdrix is much bigger.
"I don't want what I don't have. I want more of what I do have."
"Let's do it again!" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.
"Many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose-quills." —William Shakespeare, Hamlet
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
Where air meets water, fish meets talon.
When your enemies are denied soldiers, they are denied victory.
The hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned.
The sea gives, and the sea takes. Some just help with the taking.
The phantom warrior comes from nowhere and returns there just as quickly.
Are merfolk humans with fins, or are humans merfolk with feet?
Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch.
At the sight of the thing the calamari vendor's eyes went wide, but from fear or avarice none could tell.
Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.
Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone. —Arabian proverb
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
Brute force wins the battles. Conviction wins the wars.
"For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Kubla Khan"
"Fortune does not side with the faint-hearted." —Sophocles, Phaedra
Hunter by instinct, weapon by training.
Bravery shines brightest in a pure soul.
"You could die famous or you could die old. I chose old." —Former soldier
". . . Before honor is humility." —The Bible, Proverbs 15:33
"You'll lose a duel if your enemy comes expecting a war."
Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time.
Mutual consent is not required for war.
The enthusiasm of the young, sharpened by the discipline of a soldier.
Discipline wears many robes.
The heart's courage is the soul's guardian.
A true warrior's thoughts are of victory, not death.
The flash of his lance projects the pure radiance of his honor.
"Join the army, see foreign countries!" they'd said.
Let the unjust avert their faces and contemplate their peril.
Bargaining with a goblin is like trading with a child; both believe they already own everything.
Some fight for honor and some for gold, but the militia fight for hearth and home.
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
For all its traps and defenses, Yavimaya has its havens, too.
"Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!" —Rayne, Academy Chancellor
Karn felt more secure about his value to Urza when he realized he didn't need regular trimming.
"What we do not use up, we use again." —Urza
Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines.
"At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end." —Barrin
Tawnos left a legacy of animal designs in many of Urza's creations.
Garbage in, treasure out.
Step 1: Find your cousin. Step 2: Get your cousin in the cannon. Step 3: Find another cousin.
As the invasion drew closer, Urza's means began to resemble Phyrexia's end.
Toward the end, Gatha struggled to keep his experiments in and his patrons out.
The students disliked the secretary for its unfailing memory—until they discovered it couldn't dodge thrown objects.
"I think it no accident that every civilized people has discovered the art of distillation." —Rofellos of Llanowar
From each seed, a world. From each world, a thousand seeds.
Rain from this storm leaves you pinned to the ground like an insect.
Much to Multani's chagrin, Rofellos gleefully tutored Yavimaya's elves on the rudest and most vulgar words spoken in Llanowar.
"Rise, elf. We are both of Gaea, and thus we are equal." —Multani, to Rofellos
To renew the land, plow the land. To destroy the land, do nothing. —Druids' saying
Most spiders wait patiently for their prey to arrive. Most spiders aren't forty feet tall.
"This is my place of power. Nothing can take root here unless I allow it." —Multani, maro-sorcerer
In case of emergency, crush bug.
The seed torches' pollen gives off light, but the elves find it heightens their senses as well.
"In Llanowar, we tend the forest's boughs and branches. In Yavimaya, we are a part of them." —Rofellos of Llanowar
The balance of nature dictates that one day humans will be stepped on by bugs.
The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation.
From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more. —Elvish teaching
Like a masterful quilter, Yavimaya stitches together patches of color to warn its denizens of threats.
A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout. —Yavimaya saying
The Phyrexian killing machines couldn't have known the seriousness of their mistake in wounding the ape—they'd never seen it angry.
You'll never get a Keldon's goat.
Land charred black, rivers boiled, Crops and wells alike despoiled, Mountains leveled, forests felled— Footprints of the beasts of Keld.
Keldon warriors don't need signals to tell them when to attack, but when to stop.
Not all Keld's warriors are found on the battlefield.
The climax of a warlord's career is always death.
Many Keldon warriors bear the mark of intentional insanity.
Sometimes the mountain takes. —Keldon saying
Keldons divide all their spoils into two groups: trophies and catapult ammunition.
Ask a Keldon to hold his temper and you'll be left holding your guts.
"The Keldons' ogre campaign provided more body parts than my meager facility could properly use." —Gatha, Tolarian renegade
"Goblins build with true zeal—and anything else within arm's reach."
"Grow food in dirt? Save time—eat dirt."
"What are we celebratin' again?"
Goblins don't know the meaning of the word "tactics"—or the word "meaning," for that matter.
Did the land make the Keldons? Did the Keldons make the land? Or were they simply meant for each other?
Gatha survived as long as he did by giving all Keld's predators exactly what they wanted.
A steed grows with its rider.
After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck.
When Gatha fell, he was called to account for each abomination he created.
He craves only one commodity.
Gatha showed remarkable prowess in increasing his subjects' stature. Their lifespans, however, were another matter.
Only the coldest hearts and the strongest stomachs can stand against it.
As no one has ever accepted a second invitation to Davvol's table, the evincar often dines alone.
Davvol encouraged the skirges; they made excellent sentries and were quite edible if properly seasoned.
"This monstrosity will do—for now." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
"For all the priceless tomes they have destroyed, one would think they would taste better." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late.
"They're not just retrievers, they're carriers."
They exist to cease.
Being one would be an honor, if the word "honor" had any meaning in Phyrexia.
Often it's not the hunter or the hunted but the opportunist who thrives in Rath.
"The rate of spread in this region is unacceptable. Start again." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
This is a world of spiteful wasps that sting and kill even as they die.
Rath is a disease all its inhabitants carry.
Many sent to serve Davvol carried such instruments, as if to remind him who their true masters were.
"'Davvol, blast those elves.' 'Davvol, transport those troops.' No one cares that today is my birthday."
The muck claims a hundred living things for each meager treasure it spews forth.
"I will trade life for life with the insurgents. Our resources, unlike theirs, are limitless." —Davvol, Evincar of Rath
"The academy educates; I employ. It's a perfect arrangement." —Gatha, Tolarian renegade
Rayne once made several unkind comparisons between the bird's naked opportunism and Urza's.
"Of course she's at the head of her class. All her classmates have disappeared." —Gatha, Tolarian renegade
"Do try to keep an open mind, would you?"
Arrows are only one way to remove an enemy.
"Urza, I've discovered more promising students than you and my husband have, combined. And I haven't lost a single one." —Rayne, Academy Chancellor
"Urza says he's sane. Perhaps, but measures of sanity among planeswalkers are hard to come by." —Barrin
Just as Serra crafted angels of light and faith, Urza constructed an army of sorcery and power to resist the coming invasion.
If the eyes are windows to the soul, their souls are not of this world.
Barrin drowned his doubts about Urza's project by delving ever deeper into its details.
It's tastiest when served with the fish it stole.
For a moment, Urza thought not of war and destruction, but of the freedom of the skies.
It isn't truly born until its first flight.
"Mind if I just lie down right here for a few weeks?"
Campus pranksters initiate new students with the old "beeble bomb" routine.
If at first you don't succeed, run away and hide.
"Chancellor Rayne canceled the annual beeble roast. I should have married a crueler woman." —Barrin
Students who had seen Rayne argue with Urza were certain she had summoned it to make him seem warmer by comparison.
Illusion steals reality from the unwise.
The blinding barrier served Benalia better than a hundred shields.
"Next to Grace is Reason, and Reason must be retained. If the web of Reason comes unwoven, madness will escape." —Song of All, canto 167
"Next to Law is Duty, and Duty must be obeyed. If the frame of Duty is broken, none shall weave life's fabric." —Song of All, canto 167
Falling from heaven is not as painful as surviving the impact.
Poorly trained griffins sometimes attack the noble audiences that gather to watch their progress.
Their commitment to Serra is as solid as any shield.
An angel's touch can prepare a soldier for battle more than a thousand military drills.
"To forgive our enemies is to forgive ourselves."
Treasures, trinkets, trash—the relics of the past are brought forth again.
A thing of Serra's realm exists only by the grace of her followers' faith.
Behind his eyes is the pain of every soldier his hands have healed.
The archangels zealously drove Serra's light into every corner of their new home as if their creator still commanded them.
Who is truer: you who are, or you who are to be?
Commanders order soldiers to attack. Field surgeons order them to heal. Both are obeyed without question.
The best defense is to not get hit.
"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"
Their shields are Benalia's outermost battlements.
Benalia has no need for peacocks to serve as symbols of vanity. The Capashens strut more proudly than any bird.
Few warriors dare to challenge a knight of Capashen. Should one do so, there is one fewer.
"You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?"
". . . Three kings no more—Chenliu, Guiming, Anle. / The fiefs and posts must now be filled anew. . . ."
". . . But the time of Han had run—could he Kongming not tell?— / That night his master star fell past the hills. . . ."
". . . The world's affairs rush on, an endless stream; / A sky-told fate, infinite in reach, dooms all. . . ."
". . . Cao's abdication changed the face of all; / No mighty battles marked the Southland's fall. . . ."
". . . By six offensives from the hills of Qi Kongming sought to change Han's destiny. . . ."
". . . 'First take Jingzhou, next the Riverlands; / On that rich region, base your own royal stand.' . . ."
Named for the eastern part of the sky, the source of energy and renewal, Guan Yu's crescent-moon blade weighed over 100 pounds.
Trip wire, hooked poles, and sunken pits were commonly used to unhorse riders during the Three Kingdoms period.
To taunt a man into action, call him a coward. To insult him beyond forgiveness, call him a jackal.
"King Mulu's cheetahs came riding on the winds, charging, with fangs bared and claws flexed."
"Trying to meet a worthy man in the wrong way is as bad as closing the door on an invited guest." —Mencius, a Chinese philosopher
Incensed by their opponents' unrelenting taunts, even wise generals were known to rashly lead their troops into battle—often to disastrous defeats.
By appearing in places miles apart at the same time, Zuo Ci exhibited the mystic's ability to "shrink the land."
Taoists chose to be hermits for many reasons, but all shared one unchanging goal: to follow the Tao.
Throughout Chinese history, generals have often been referred to as tigers for their fierceness, strength, and bravery.
Bathing in this spring could cure ailments of body and mind alike.
While defending their southern borders, both the Wu and Shu kingdoms fought against the barbarians' trained elephants.
"Unless you enter the tiger's lair, you cannot get hold of the tiger's cubs." —Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)
"All men have their appointed time; that's something no horse can change." —Liu Bei, after being told that the Dilu brings its master ill fortune
Through his allies, Meng Huo commanded several hundred thousand troops composed of cavalry, rattan-armored warriors, infantry, naked men with swords, and wild animals.
The stubborn Meng Huo was captured and released by Kongming seven times before finally surrendering.
"A man, and such a fool! I, a woman, will fight them for you." —Lady Zhurong to her husband Meng Huo, before leading an army against the Shu
Fish and bear paws—one can't have both. —Chinese idiom meaning "you can't have it both ways"
Zhou Yu, Sun Ce, and other famous generals feigned their deaths in order to later surprise their opponents.
". . . Near death in Baidi, having reigned three years, / Bei sadly placed his son in Kongming's care. . . ."
". . . The kingdoms three are now the stuff of dream, / For men to ponder, past all praise or blame."
". . . Jiang Wei alone still strove with might and main: / Nine times more he fought the north—in vain. . . ."
Over 500,000 commoners followed Zhang Jue, General of Heaven, in his attempt to overthrow the corrupt Han dynasty.
Zhang Jue, leader of the Yellow Scarves rebellion, was a Taoist master and tutored his soldiers in those arts.
"If I fail, my head is yours." —Warrior's oath common during the Three Kingdoms period
Soldiers often blocked off the steep mountain passes to ambush enemy troops in western and central China.
"Across the land rebellions seethed and swarmed / As vicious war lords swooped down on all sides."
With only 70,000 men under his command at the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao was able to defeat Yuan Shao and his 700,000.
Upon his return to the capitol after taking soldiers to loot a nearby peaceful town, the prime minister, Dong Zhou, boasted of it as a victory over bandits.
Penniless and far from home, many former Yellow Scarves and other soldiers became bandits to survive.
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
"The empire, long united, must divide, and long divided, must unite."
"With fire he broke the battle at Bowang . . . . Striking fear deep into Cao Cao's soul, thus Kongming scored a coup at his debut."
Taking control of powerful court positions one by one, eunuchs eventually brought on the fall of the Han dynasty, leading to the chaos of the Three Kingdoms.
While pursuing the remnants of Yuan Shao's forces into the Wuhan Desert, Cao Cao was temporarily turned back by a fierce sandstorm.
"Power-hungry eunuchs, the curse of the dynasty, have thrown the masses of the people into the depths of misery."
"In raiding and plundering, be like fire, in immovability like a mountain." —Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)
"Spreading flames illumined cloud and sea: Cao Cao went down; 'twas Zhou Yu's victory."
Only twenty years after the Sima clan united the empire, invading barbarians divided it again.
"Barbarian tribes with their rulers are inferior to Chinese states without them." —Confucius, The Analects (trans. Lau)
"Thrice Xuande's ardent quest led to Nanyang, / Where Sleeping Dragon unveiled Han's partition: . . ."
" . . . Cao Pi, Cao Rui, Fang, Mao, and briefly, Huan— / The Sima took the empire in their turn. . . ."
". . . Zhong Hui and Deng Ai next led armies west: / And to the Cao, Han's hills and streams now passed. . . ."
"To send the common people to war untrained is to throw them away." —Confucius, The Analects (trans. Lau)
"A splendid talent, admired of all men! His folly lay in serving Cao Cao's power."
At the battle of Chang'an, Ma Chao defeated the two generals Cao Cao sent to guard the pass but was forced to flee when Cao Cao's trickery turned his own ally against him.
He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared." —Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)
Wei won the battle of Hefei when Zhang Liao defeated Sun Quan and then foiled a Wu scheme to incite rebellion.
Cao Cao was more concerned with capabilities than lineage. He excelled at recruiting and retaining men of talent to serve him.
The battle of Puyang marked the beginning of the end for Lu Bu. He lost the city—and later his life—to Cao Cao.
At the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shao by raiding his grain depot, leaving him with no way to feed his troops.
Sima Yi fought for four generations of the Cao family before his own grandson became emperor and united the three kingdoms.
"Swallowing his eye, the valiant Xiahou Dun fought on; / But Cao Cao's vanguard, its commander wounded, could not hold out for long."
In ancient China, not wearing armor could be a fatal mistake. Guan Yu, Zhou Yu, Sun Ce, and other heros were struck by poison arrows.
By the year 208, Cao Cao commanded more than 1,000 experienced generals and a million infantry, cavalry, and naval troops.
"If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours."
Frustrated with Cao Cao's control of the imperial court, Emporer Xian secretly issued an edict condemning him, using his own blood as ink.
Cao Cao was haunted to death by the ghosts of the empresses and other high courtiers he had murdered.
"But it was a year of dearth. People were reduced to eating leaves of jujube trees. Corpses were seen everywhere in the countryside."
"Lieutenants dishonored, corpses carted home; The general raises troops again to take revenge."
Believing they wrote the forged letter that had been stolen from Zhou Yu, Cao Cao rashly executed his two best admirals for treason.
Though he held the title of prime minister, Cao Cao used the emperor's name to exert his own influence on the empire.
Cao Cao's cousin, Cao Ren was known throughout the three kingdoms as the fiercest of warriors.
"When you give offense to heaven, to whom can you pray?" —Cao Cao, quoting Confucius
When Zhuge Jin proposed the marriage of Guan Yu's daugher and Sun Quan's heir, Guan Yu's arrogant refusal led to disaster.
"After making me, Zhou Yu, did you have to make Kongming?" —Zhou Yu crying to heaven on his deathbed
Both Wu and Wei warships patrolled the Yangtze River, the natural border between the two kingdoms.
A cunning strategist, Cao Ren tricked Zhou Yu by letting him enter Nanjun. Zhou Yu thought he was capturing the city until Cao Ren's arrows rained down upon him.
The first battle of Hefei was Sun Quan's last as a field general. From then on he let his generals command in the field while he directed battle from behind the front lines.
At the second battle of Ruxu, the brave Wu general Gan Ning raided Cao Cao's camp of 400,000 men with only 100 cavalry. Not a single man or horse was lost.
The Wu kingdom's well-trained admirals were integral to the Southlands' victory at Red Cliffs as well as the kingdom's defense.
"One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze."
The overnight appearance of miles of "armed" Wu forts at Guangling frightened a much vaster Wei force into fleeing for their lives.
"Plans evolved within the tent decide a victory 1,000 li away."
"Those who know do not talk. Those who talk do not know." —Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching (trans. Feng and English)
By the battle of Red Cliffs in the year 208, the Wu kingdom controlled more than 7,000 warships on the Yangtze.
Lu Su served as an intermediary between the Wu and Shu kingdoms until Zhou Yu's death in 210, when he became Wu's supreme commander.
As the Wu chief commander, Lu Meng conquered Shu-held Jingzhou in 219 by disguising soldiers as merchants on boats filled with hiding troops.
Sister to Sun Quan and wife to Liu Bei, Lady Sun often felt her loyalty to both tested.
"Leadership, not numbers, determines victory." —A Wu commander, before his 5,000 troops forced 15,000 Wei troops to retreat from Ruxu
Starving and worn, Cao Cao escaped from the battle of Red Cliffs with only 27 of his original 800,000 men.
Before the battle of Red Cliffs, a supposedly sleeping Zhou Yu allowed his old friend, a Wei advisor, to steal a planted letter forged as if from Wei's two best admirals.
Sun Quan's long and successful rule in the years 199 to 251 was due to his ability to choose and foster talented advisors and generals.
The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei.
Using nature to their advantage, wise Three Kingdoms generals often let dammed rivers loose to destroy their enemies.
At Red Cliffs, Kongming and Zhou Yu each wrote his plan for defeating the Wei on the palm of his hand. They laughed as they both revealed the same word, "Fire."
Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs.
Zhao Zilong was a brave and noble warrior. Twice he rescued Liu Bei's son, Liu Shan.
Zhang Fei's uncharacteristic alliance with a defeated Riverlands general, Yan Yan, allowed Shu forces to advance through forty-five Riverlands strongpoints with no casualties.
After making the Peach Garden Oath, the three brothers raised an army of 500 youths to fight the Yellow Scarves rebellion.
"The empire belongs to no one man but to all in the empire. He who has virtue shall possess it."
"Until I've gnawed their flesh and exterminated their clans, my humiliation will not be effaced." —Liu Bei, on the death of his oath-brother Guan Yu
During Kongming's campaigns against the Wei, his Shu troops rotated from the battlefront to the fields every hundred days.
Keeping a million-man army fed was no easy task. Grain and rice caravans were the lifeblood of the empire.
Liu Bei lost many men at the battle of Runan because of his lack of strategy. It wasn't until he met Kongming that he began to truly succeed as a leader.
"The common folk are ceaselessly active. The fields are fertile and the soil productive, and neither flood nor drought plagues us." —A Shu diplomat
Kongming's first campaign against the Wei kingdom was a rousing success until an arrogant Shu general, Ma Su, foolishly lost the city of Jieting.
Throughout the three kingdoms, important generals were often guarded by small groups of expert soldiers known as "elite companions."
Confronting Cao Cao's army at Steepslope Bridge, Zhang Fei bellowed, "I am Zhang Fei of Yan! Who dares fight me to the death?" Cao Cao's army cowered and fled.
In establishing the Shu kingdom, Liu Bei's forces fought against Ma Chao at Chengdu. Eventually, Ma Chao surrendered and became one of Liu Bei's Tiger Generals.
One of the greatest steeds in the empire, Red Hare could travel a thousand li a day and climb hills as if running on flat ground.
"Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war." —Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching (trans. Feng and English)
"We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood . . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day." —Peach Garden Oath
". . . It was Pang Tong's boat-connecting scheme That let Zhou Yu accomplish his great deed."
The mourning families of commanders and generals were often given land, valuables, or money to compensate for their losses.
"Only wisdom and virtue can truly win men's devotion." —Liu Bei
"Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again."
"Virile in war, he kept the north in fear; His prodigies subdued the western sphere."
"He Guan Yu covered the ground on a thousand-li horse; / With dragon blade he took each pass by force."
Following the battle of Redcliffs, both Liu Bei and Sun Quan coveted the province of Jingzhou. After Sun Quan's troops failed to capture it, Liu Bei's succeeded.
"All warfare is based on deception." —Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles)
Out of time and options, Kongming was forced to bluff at Xicheng. He tricked an army of 150,000 Wei by leaving the city gates open and calmly playing the zither.
Kongming's predecessor helped Liu Bei win the battle of Fancheng by recognizing and defeating Cao Ren's use of the dreaded "Eight Gold Locks" formation.
"Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer, / Far surpassed the champions of his sphere."
You'll never miss what you never had.
Mouths and wings beyond numbering, but a single mind to guide them.
"Uh, does anyone have a flute?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew." —Kaervek
A mirror, a shield, a promise, a great distance, and a kind word—five ways to avoid harm.
It scattered falcons like a lion hunting among jackals.
"It has been my honor to improve on the Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work." —Urza, in his apprenticeship
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . . ." —"Song of the Artificer"
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
When the mighty sleep, the lowly prowl.
Slow and heavy swings the club.
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.
The fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"With no further options, I was forced to don the mask." —Rashida Scalebane
"How is it the legged engines seem so much more alive than their wheeled counterparts? Simply, they were born, not made." —Mishra
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
Pass me from soul to soul, / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls. —Totem inscription (translated)
The Brothers' War scarred the land, but Ashnod left her mark in the bloodlines of those she tortured.
Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations.
". . . The magician drew a ring off his finger . . . , saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, diary
"Aselbo soon had the rhino eating from his palm and the snake waiting at his heels." —Afari, Tales
"Too much work—it takes a long time to break them in, and more than a few recruits." —Grebog, goblin swine-rider
The trees have ears, eyes, and teeth.
"After waking to the magic of Llanowar, no dreams can compare." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
"To pass through the jungle: silence, courtesy, ferocity, as the occasion demands." —Kamau, "Proper Passage"
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's terrible power.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"I've dreamt of a second harvest but fear I will not see it." —Asmira, holy avenger
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war." —Afari, Tales
The soldiers chopped and chopped, and still the great tree stood, frowning down at them.
Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.
"A mysterious people indeed. Their origins are as secret as their traditions." —Lord Magnus of Llanowar
The dogs of war are nothing compared to the cats.
Spring follows winter —Elvish expression meaning "all things pass"
No two see the same Maro.
When setting a snare, success depends not on the quality of the trap, but the quality of the bait.
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
"In the soil of leadership sprout the seeds of immortality." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper
It's not far into the trap, as the crow flies.
"Do we know what we're doing? Yes—the will of Freyalise." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"I've been insulted by drunks in a hundred inns, but never as skillfully or annoyingly as by those blasted brownies." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"They say a Zhalfirin archer can split the eye of a griffin. Nonsense, of course; they have no faith to guide their darts." —Nuru, Femeref archer
"I'd rather fight on foreign soil. That way, if I lose I can blame it on the terrain." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
". . . and when the farmer awoke the next morning, all the seeds from his field were once again in their sacks." —Afari, Tales
"I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, 'Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!'"
Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm. —Elven proverb
Elves know where to harvest the best of the forest, for they planted it there themselves.
"Did clouds dance in his eyes, did thorns play at his fingertips?" —Shesul Fass, faerie bard
"Tonight we'll eat a farewell feast. Cold corn porridge is not enough. / Let's peel papayas, pineapples, and mangoes, drink coconut milk, / and bake bananas." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"Big plants not only good for hidin', but full o' tasty bugs, too." —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Mold could catch you." —Suq'Ata insult
These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.
Thinking of dinner made Squee realize that the forest was probably thinking the same thing.
"Struggle, and you will only fan the flames." —Talibah, embermage
My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I? —Femeref riddle
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.
"When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
"I saw the wizard gesturing, but I didn't guess his plan until my aesthir cried out and went into a dive." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?" —Naimag, Femeref philosopher
Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift. —Suq'Ata saying
"There are times solid ground gives precious little comfort." —Talibah, embermage
It prefers its meals cooked.
Lightning tethers souls to the world. —Kor saying
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
"I fear anything with teeth measured in handspans!" —Norin the Wary
"Flog and Squee / Up the tree / See the army / Flee, flee, flee." —Goblin nursery rhyme/war cry
Many mages have been consumed by their work.
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
"Hi!ni!ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! / Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
In a rare display of ingenuity, the orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
Only the heroic and the mad follow mountain goat trails.
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do." —Selenia, dark angel
"The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"Next!"
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok . . . ."
"When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back!" —Biggum Flodrot, goblin veteran
They talk a good fight.
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
"O! it is excellent / To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous / To use it like a giant." —William Shakespeare, Measure for Measure
"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"Anger is fleeting; remorse is eternal." —Karn, silver golem
"Magic's only part of it, my friend. Diet does the rest." —Suq'Ata trader
Fire elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Want all, lose all. —Zhalfirin aphorism
"If your blood doesn't run hot, I will make it run in the sands!" —Maraxus of Keld
"Dragonfire forged me a warrior." —Rashida Scalebane
"Why do we trade with those despicable elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust." —Oracle en-Vec
Fire never dies alone.
"Barbarian raids were a concern to those living in the northwest provinces, but the skyknights never dealt with the problem in a systematic way. They thought of the Balduvians as an 'amusing model' of their forebears' culture." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"The shamans? Ha! They are craven cows not capable of true magic." —Irini Sengir
"Not all minotaurs are tribal. Some are freelance." —Eron the Relentless
"You can't get there from here. Well, you can—it just won't be fun." —Ertai, wizard adept
He controlled the zombies even before his own death; now nothing can make them betray him.
"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets." —Shauku, Endbringer
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. —Suq'Ata saying
When the alliance between Balduvia and Kjeldor deprived Stromgald of easy victories, its agents were forced to fuel their rituals with their own flesh.
"I have seen the night torn into thin darkling strips and woven into shapes too bleak for dreams." —Crovax
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us." —Crovax
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"
"How can you claim the gods are merciless when they robbed the snake of its limbs to give the other creatures a sporting chance?" —Hakim, Loreweaver
"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments." —Oracle en-Vec
"It is terrible how one brief action can live forever in memory." —Jolrael
As the poisoned land spreads, so does the nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"The past is a ghost that haunts you from the moment it exists until the moment you don't." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—but those who go with her are never the same.
"Bind me to thee, my soul to thine. I am your servant and your slave. Blood for blood, flesh for flesh, Leshrac, my lord." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"They shall drink sorrow's dregs. They shall kill those whom once they loved." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"But I signed nothing!" —Taraneh, Suq'Ata mage
"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires. There is no greater guilt than discontentment. And there is no greater disaster than greed." —Lao Tsu, Tao Te Ching, (trans. Chan)
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.
"Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the baron knows of one." —Autumn Willow
"What is crueler? To let a wound of the heart fester, or to simply cut it out?" —Crovax
"Angels are simply extensions of truth upon the fabric of life—and there is far more dark than light." —Baron Sengir
The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
"If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it." —Kaervek
"Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer." —Autumn Willow
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist." —Selenia, dark angel
"Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result." —Execution order of Endrek Sahr, master breeder
A rhino's bargain —Femeref expression meaning "a situation with no choices"
It moved through the troops leaving no footprints, save on their souls.
Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.
Don't be fooled by their looks. Think of them as little knives with wings.
"You are wrong," Volrath said. "I do not hate the living. They often prove quite useful to me." And then he laughed.
"What you call decay, I call ripening. You'll gain no sustenance from this harvest." —Kaervek
"An innocent man died because of my anger. That knowledge will haunt me for all eternity." —Karn, silver golem
Some smiles show cheer; some merely show teeth.
" . . . When the trees bow down their heads, The wind is passing by." —Christina Rossetti, "Who Has Seen the Wind?"
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings." —William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
When no falcons fly, beware the sky. —Femeref aphorism
"Vodalian rank is displayed by the colors and patterns of their skin. Beware the color red; that is the badge of the empress's favor." —Corbio, pearl diver
"It is nature that gives us our boundaries and nature that enforces them." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force.
"To hide the truth is more than folly—it is fatal." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
She had expected death to roar, to thunder, to growl. She did not recognize it when it came hissing to her side.
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?" —The Bible, Job 41:1
Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with.
The owl asks but never answers.
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.
"Barrin taught me that the hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned." —Ertai, wizard adept
"The memory of your existence will fade like the final stars of morning." —Kaervek
"Wealth is a good thing, compared to poverty—your food is better, your robes are softer, and your companions have bathed more recently." —Kukemssa pirate
Occasionally members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"Ahh! Opposable digits!"
The phantom warrior comes from nowhere and returns there just as quickly.
"To the tutors, a 'poem of sand' was of little account, a 'poem of ivory,' priceless." —Afari, Tales
Are merfolk humans with fins, or are humans merfolk with feet?
"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?" —Reveka, wizard savant
A master of tactics, the lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
"Madness and genius are separated only by degrees of success." —Sidar Jabari
"We can fight with you or against you. After my day, I'd prefer the former." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath." —Selenia, dark angel
"One moment I was walking along the beach, and the next I was high in the air, staring into a hideous smiling face." —Tarub, Suq'Ata sailor
"Huge walls of ice block further travel. We can't believe they are natural." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"I've seen fog so thick you could cut it, but none that could cut me." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
Dreams' riches are easily spent. —Suq'Ata adage
First the insult, then the injury.
Up and down, over and through, back around— the joke's on you.
In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice.
"Temper, temper." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Once great literature—now great litter." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
A lie always returns; be careful how you catch it.
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.
"Flame grows gentle with but a little distance." —Orim, Samite healer
Sharper than wind, lighter than air.
His presence brings not only a strong arm but also renewed hope.
The griffin's shadow gives courage to the righteous and dread to the idle.
I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
"There is no sweeter music than the wails of a dying dragon." —Rashida Scalebane
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!" —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.
"I have seen your strength imbued in angels' wings, and I have felt your sorrow rain down on the ruins brought by the Lord of the Wastes." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Just think of me as the storm before the calm." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"My soldiers fought without hesitation, died without doubt." —Sidar Jabari
"The meek shall fight as one, and they shall overcome even the greatest of foes." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"These things will protect you while I'm gone, remind you of my love for you." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Unicorns don't care if you believe in them any more than you care if they believe in you.
"They knew Bantau was lost when, to hide the pearl he had found on the beach, he swallowed it—and soon grew wings." —Hakim, Loreweaver
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
A blazing light to drive out the shadows.
"The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope." —Gulsen, abbey matron
"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu." —Roya, Zhalfirin archer
"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes." —Volrath
Honorable in battle, generous in death. —Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard
"Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples." —Gwendlyn Di Corci
"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war." —Telim'Tor
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
"Destiny, chance, fate, fortune—they're all just ways of claiming your successes without claiming your failures." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Archers, ballistae—you can't even get near the island of Avenant." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"If I have learned anything as a wizard it is this: never fight your own battles." —Waffa, sorcerer of Nyomba
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." —Daudi, Femeref tutor
"My goat was a small price to pay for the chance to see the hunting griffin dive and seize it." —Suq'Ata trader
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.
"And the flamingos said, 'Get out of our nest—we can't be seen with the likes of you!' So, the griffin ate them." —Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse.
"Hang out our banners on the outward walls; / The cry is still, 'They come'; our castle's strength / Will laugh a siege to scorn." —William Shakespeare, Macbeth
Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.
Some fight for honor and some for gold, but the militia fight for hearth and home.
"My mother once told me angels sing their swords' names with each strike." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
"When you have been bitten with fangs of granite, you start to long for the ivory sabers of tigers." —Norin the Wary
"I'd like to buy a bowel."
From concept to paper to reality.
"Every device in the rig is evidence of Thran enlightenment. All mana was the same to them, whether from rock or water, growth or decay. Can you imagine such unity of vision?" —Urza, journal
Junk heaps have rats, but scrapheaps have goblins.
Not every cage is made of bars.
"Wonderful! You got a lion on your first try. Now put it back."
It entertained Jhoira to craft a kit that could bring her the tools.
The maiden is a jealous lover.
Part prison, part home.
"We've managed to keep the goblins in their assigned areas, but there's little we can do about the smell." —Whip Tongue, viashino technician
The goblins did not understand their attraction to the mana rig. They simply knew it was where they belonged.
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
When the gorilla playfully grabbed the wurm's tail, the wurm doubled back and playfully ate the gorilla's head.
Each time the saw blade bit, the tree spat it out.
"Argoth's doom rained from a clear sky. Yavimaya will not share that fate." —Multani, maro-sorcerer
"My grandmother once told me the future of our world was inside the Weatherseed. When I touched it, I knew she was right."
Urza's wards fell from him like autumn leaves as he entered the dreaming grove. He awoke imprisoned in living wood.
These monkeys mean business.
Sometimes it's possible to pull a meal out of thin air.
Hatred outlives the hateful.
When a tree falls in the forest, Multani hears it.
"To make peace with the forest, make peace with me." —Multani, to Urza
Suddenly, she couldn't see the acorns for the trees.
A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute.
When these apes want something, it's a matter of gibbon take.
When the eternal stars align, can mere mortals resist?
The elk is Gaea's favorite, who wears the forest on its brow.
"Hmm . . . maybe lotuses this year."
"The past is buried for good reason."
"You guys go on ahead. I'll catch up with ya." —Vark, goblin scout, last words
When the bey runs, match his stride. —Viashino saying
Vark decided to lie down and think of a good excuse to quit working.
To strike down the phoenix is to slash at the flame.
The goblins revered it; the viashino defended it. Only Urza understood it.
"My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain." —Barb Tail, viashino heretic
Who harnesses fire controls the world. —Ghitu proverb
Do not judge a lizard by its size. —Ghitu proverb
"Your porous flesh betrays you." —Fire Eye, viashino bey
Keep off the glass. —Hydra warning sign
"Catch!"
"If you're gonna lose, at least make sure they don't win as much." —Jula, goblin raider
"The goblins are in charge of maintenance? Why not just set it on fire now and call it a day?" —Whip Tongue, viashino technician
There's beauty in the desert—but it's best to view it from afar.
"I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray."
"First, do some harm." —Oath of Goblins
The war cry is not simply a shout but a sacrament.
If you survive a slinger attack, the slinger wished you to live.
"They are called 'Mi'uto,' which means 'one use.'" —Jhoira, artificer
Some knights will not follow orders—only disorder.
The overconfident are the most vulnerable.
"You cannot possibly know the toll your alliances will exact from you." —Barrin, to Urza
It bites the hand that leads it.
Kerrick's corrupt domain swelled like a blister on Tolaria's skin.
The Phyrexians' only interest in organic life is discerning its weakness.
"Left, right, left, right . . . hmm. Okay—left, left, left, left, . . ."
It is the harbinger of disease, not the carrier.
Death is no excuse to stop working.
"The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death." —Phyrexian progress notes
"The first stage of the illness: rash and nausea." —Phyrexian progress notes
"The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough." —Phyrexian progress notes
"The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness." —Phyrexian progress notes
With limited resources and near unlimited time, Kerrick used parts from one beast to build another.
Kerrick was to find that some borders can never be crossed.
"We had years to prepare, while they had mere minutes." —Kerrick, sleeper agent
They never miss a funeral.
If the sun ever hit the swamp, where would these scurry to?
You can swat a thousand gnats, but a thousand more will assail you.
It roamed the time bubble like a captured animal. Kerrick knew he must soon find a way to unleash it on Tolaria or destroy it.
"The admixture of bitterwort in the viral brew has produced most favorable results." —Phyrexian progress notes
"The fools thought me dead. But I built an empire inside my tomb." —Kerrick, sleeper agent
Two days after the forge was completed, the faeries were immune to its flames.
Not only does it catch fish, it cleans them too.
Awake and awing in the blink of an eye.
"I wonder how it feels to be bored." —Jhoira, artificer
Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best.
Good riddance.
The greatest gift is the opportunity to right one's wrongs.
"He cocooned himself alone in his workshop for months. When he finally emerged, all broad grins and excited chatter, I knew he'd found his answer." —Barrin, master wizard
Barrin's pride in his apprentice was diminished somewhat when he had to get the others back down.
"I'm allergic to shellfish—not only did it kill my entire village, it also gave me this nasty rash." —Olivia, fisher
"At first I simply observed. But I found that without investment in others, life serves no purpose." —Karn, silver golem
Motivation was high in the academy once students realized flunking their exams could kill them.
Horas swore off drinking, but after meeting the creature a second time he decided he'd better start again.
When nothing but second best will do.
Beebles are frequently hurled against stone surfaces at high speed but always zing back into the air with a giggle.
To some, the Tolarian sunrise was a blinding flash; to others, a lingering glow.
Some do. Some teach. The rest look it up.
I never metamorphosis I didn't like.
"I would weep, but my tears have been stolen; I would shout, but my voice has been taken. Thus, I write."
"The harder you push, the stronger we become." —Radiant, to Urza
"Our Mother! The sky was Her hair; the sun, Her face. She danced on the grass and in the hills." —Song of All, canto 23
With heavy heart, Urza doused one world's light to rekindle another's.
"In time our realm will shine again. But it will gleam only when we scour away the taint of doubt." —Radiant, archangel
As the sun grew cold in the realm, the statue grew warm.
"My family protects all families."
Dying is a soldier's talent.
"He has returned. He who brought the dark ones. He who poisoned our paradise. How shall we greet him? With swift and certain death!" —Radiant, archangel
"Serra ruled by faith. I cannot afford that luxury." —Radiant, archangel
No doubt in their minds, no fear in their hearts.
Perception is more pleasing than truth.
The notes themselves are irrelevant. The music's effect, however, is worth ten armies.
"It is not my place to question Radiant's rule. I exist to enforce her will."
"The face of Light will shine upon them, and they will know war no more." —Song of All, canto 918
"I stand ready to die for our world. Who will stand with me?" —Radiant, archangel
Even an enemy is a valuable resource.
"Do not treat your people as you treat your artifacts. Let them go, and they will live; seal them here, and they will die." —Urza, to Radiant
"If it is meant to be nothing but a machine," Karn finally asked Jhoira, "why did Urza build it to be like me?"
"Time flows like a river. In Tolaria we practice the art of building dams." —Barrin, master wizard
The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.
One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day.
"Um...oh...what was I saying?" —Reveka, wizard savant
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
"This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks . . . / Stand like Druids of old." —Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "Evangeline"
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.
"A fine example of the rewards of artifice: a thoroughly obedient steed with wings of Soldevi steel." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The path of least resistance will seldom lead you beyond your doorstep." —Oracle en-Vec
"I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone." —A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a Spider without an appetite." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
String, weapons, wax, or jewels—it makes no difference. Leave nothing unguarded in Scarwood.
"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"The raging winds . . . , settling on the sea, the surges sweep, / Raise liquid mountains, and disclose the deep." —Virgil, Aeneid, Book I, trans. Dryden
"Oh, no—not you again?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion." —Vervamon the Elder
"We know our place in the cycle of life—and it is not as flies." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Troll chant
Charging alone takes uncommong daring or uncommon stupidity. Or both.
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! / Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
The evisceration of one mogg always cheers up the rest.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"Can they do that?" —Imwita, Zhalfirin artificer, last words
"Strength in numbers? Right." —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"Next!"
They certainly are.
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok . . . ."
"When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back!" —Biggum Flodrot, goblin veteran
"I don't suppose we could teach them to throw the cursed things?" —Ivra Jursdotter
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the baron knows of one." —Autumn Willow
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die." —Oracle en-Vec
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
"We are to be bound together as the reeds of a basket." —Asmira, Rashida, and Jabari, unity chant
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves." —"Song to the Sun," Femeref song
"The clouds came alive and dove to the earth! Hooves flashed among the dark army, who fled before the spectacle of fury." —Song of All, canto 211
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
A shield of light admits no shadow.
"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war." —Telim'Tor
"That does it! I'm going back to hunting chickens!" —Rhirhok, goblin archer
"Without Combat Medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
"We called them 'armored lightning.'" —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.
The academy worked with time—until time ran out.
Both forge and pyre.
A fragile cocoon of dreaming will.
Living metal encasing dying flesh.
"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall." —Gamelen, Citanul elder
Its purr is the sound of iron filings sliding down satin.
To hone swords and dull minds. —Whetstone inscription
Urza saw the wall and realized that even if he tore every Phyrexian to pieces, they would still resist him.
The key did not work on a single lock, yet it opened many doors.
"Tawnos's blueprints were critical to the creation of my armor. As he once sealed himself in steel, I sealed myself in a walking crypt." —Urza
It was the explorers' only tether to reality.
When Urza asked the viashino what it did, they answered: "It hums."
Yotian soldiers were designed to fight, not watch their feet.
The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could.
Designed to carry equipment across rivers, the hopping automaton was soon pressed into service in the infantry.
"Let go your mind. Mine is fitter." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
Fiko summoned only atogs for three straight sessions. The tutor couldn't decide whether to punish his failure or praise his consistency.
Fire in the blood, fire in the belly.
As Serra was to learn, the peace and sanctity of her realm were as fragile as glass.
Start with eleven gnomes and a room of parts, and come morning you'll have ten and a monster the likes of which you've never seen.
When the Brotherhood of Gix dug out the cave of Koilos they found their master's severed hand. They enshrined it, hoping that one day it would point the way to Phyrexia.
A snake in the grasp.
Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it.
Entire trees were stripped of their bark and branches by the wurm's writhing path.
Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements.
Many cultures have legends of a lush, hidden paradise. The elves of Argoth had no need of such stories.
All the pain of the shattered forest contained in a single drop.
"If you can't catch them, cut the trees down from beneath them. Force them to fight on our terms." —Mishra
The year that the brothers landed on Argoth, the trees produced five times as many seeds as normal.
"What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made." —Elvish riddle
When the winds rock the trees, listen for voices in the creaking of the trunks. If you hear your name, you are one of the Goddess's chosen.
Although the elves of Argoth always considered them a nuisance, the pixies made fine allies during the war against the machines.
A foul, metallic stench clogged Urza's senses. It was then he knew his brother was no more.
Titania rewards all those who honor the forest by making them a living part of it.
One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day.
It wants only to dress you in silk.
The only alert the invaders had was the rustling of leaves on a day without wind.
Each day at dusk the birds above the canopy grow silent.
"We have more sprouts than they have hands." —Gamelen, Citanul elder
The gorilla beat its chest and threw great handfuls of leaves into the air. It howled challenge and showed its teeth. The mechanical soldier, not understanding, simply killed it.
The forest rose to the battle, not to save the people but to save itself.
The forest grew back so quickly that lumbering machines were suspended in the treetops.
The forest was too lush for the brothers to despoil—almost.
Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral.
The first explorers found Argoth a storehouse of natural wealth—towering forests grown over rich veins of ore.
Ages ago, a party of elves took cover to let one pass. They're still waiting.
Bring the spear of ancient briar; Bring the torch to light the pyre. Bring the one who trod our ground; Bring the spade to dig his mound.
Before Urza and Mishra came to Argoth, the herders prevented their creatures from stampeding. During the war, they encouraged it.
Harbin's ornithopter had been trapped for two days within the currents of the storm. When the skies cleared, all he could see was a horizon of trees.
Mother, sleep / Dream our lives Our roots your soul / Our leaves your bed.
From deep in the caves beneath the forest, the hierophants planned the druids' raids against the enemy.
The druids found a haven in the cool limestone tunnels beneath Argoth. The invaders found only tigers.
"How could you not hear it approach? It's a hippo!" —Argivian commander
The massive Argivian attack on their rooted kindred was a declaration of war to the treefolk.
"Braid her branches, life fulfilling Goddess loving, Goddess killing." —Citanul chant
In Argoth, the shortest path between two points is the one the swine make.
Sharpen your ears —Elvish expression meaning "grow wiser"
If you're smaller than the anaconda, it considers you food. If you're larger than the anaconda, it considers you a lot of food.
The elves of Argoth were trained to ride these creatures, even when their mounts traveled upside-down.
"Shiv hatched from a shell of stone around a yolk of flame." —Viashino myth
Within the rig settlement, those who have mastered the making of weapons earn highest honor.
Few swim in a place of such thirst.
"It moved this way, an' that way, an' then before I could stick it, it jumped over my head an' was gone." —Jula, goblin raider
"Give thy ration to thy mount, if the road be long. So sayeth the bey."
The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen.
It was the dragons who first learned to chase their prey into the vapors before igniting them.
The viashino knew of the cracked pipes but deliberately left them unmended to bolster the rig's defenses.
"Nothin' beat surprise—'cept rock."
The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error.
"Wear the foe's form to best it in battle. So sayeth the bey."
A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it.
Late at night, ululations echo from deep under Shiv, as the wurms sing of times older than humanity.
"Shiv may be surrounded by water, but the mountains go far deeper." —Fire Eye, viashino bey
"If one harm us, strike them in return. So sayeth the bey."
"Here's how ya win. Don't let the other guy hit back first." —Jula, goblin raider
The viashino believe that the oldest mountains hate everyone equally.
Here, rain does not wash the land; it desiccates it.
"Push one goblin into sight, an' run a lot. That's tactics." —Jula, goblin raider
Catastrophes happened so often at the mana rig that the viashino language had a special word to describe them.
The pungent smell of roasting flesh made both mages realize they'd rather break for dinner than fight.
It's not known whether the Thran built the device to forge their wonders or to defend them.
A landslide of goblins poured toward the defenders—tumbling, rolling, and bouncing their way down the steep hillside.
When the giant returned for the night, he found a dead merfolk on his pillow. Although he praised the little guma, he inwardly wondered where she had hid the head.
"It only short jump. You go first." "AIIIEEEE!" "Hmm . . . we go different way now."
He was proud to wear the lizard skin around his waist, just for the fun of annoying the enemy.
"Take the sharp metal stick and make a lotta holes." —Jula, goblin raider
They certainly are.
There's always room for one more.
All bark, someone else's bite.
"If you kids don't stop that racket, I'm turning this expedition around right now!"
When you've got nothing, you might as well trade it for something else.
Visitors to Shiv fear the dragons, the goblins, or the viashino. Natives fear the ants.
We live on the serpent's back. —Viashino saying
Like a sleeping dragon, Shiv stirs and groans at times.
Shivan inhabitants are hardened to fire, so their predators have developed alternative weaponry.
They say dromosaurs are frightened of dogs, even little ones. There are no dogs in Shiv. Not even little ones.
"Then, just when the other guys were winnin', the sky threw up." —Jula, goblin raider
Red sky at night, dragon's delight.
"It will be the goblin's first bath, and its last." —Fire Eye, viashino bey
"We drive the dragons from our home. Why should we fear you?" —Fire Eye, viashino bey
"By this glyph I affirm your role." —Urza, to Karn
Sometimes quantity, in the absence of quality, is good enough.
Rainclouds don't last long in Shiv, but that doesn't stop the lightning.
Phyrexia had tried to take Urza's soul. He was relieved that Shiv tried to claim only his soles.
"Phyrexia's purity permits no other." —Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast
"Their weak laws. Their flawed systems. They inhibit the Grand Evolution. In Yawgmoth's name, we shall erase them." —Oath of the West
The priest cast Xantcha to the ground. "It is defective. We must scrap it."
"Great Yawgmoth moves across the seas of shard and bone and rust. We exalt him in life, in death, and in between." —Phyrexian Scriptures
"If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me." —Xantcha, to Gix
Gix despised the sylvan morass. The gouge that the portal had torn in the forest was the only pleasing sight.
Its spines are prized as writing quills by the priests of Gix.
The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral.
The first Yawgmoth priest to harness their power was rewarded with several unique mutilations.
Urza dared to attack Phyrexia. Slowly, it retaliated.
"Father of Machines! Your filigree gaze carves us, and the scars dance upon our grateful flesh." —Phyrexian Scriptures
Everything will find its use in Phyrexia. Eventually.
There are places so horrible that even the dead hide their faces.
Hunger is a kind of madness—and here, all madness flourishes.
"When I say it rained, it was not small drops, but a thick, greasy drool pouring from the heavens." —Urza, journal
"Gix doesn't want a people to rule but puppets to entertain his madness." —Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast
"Planeswalking isn't about walking. It's about falling and screaming." —Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast
Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle.
"My finest warrior was lost to the Phyrexians. I pray that Lady Selenia died honorably." —Radiant, archangel
"All bonds are parasitic. Only rulership is pure." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
"Do not presume to speak for yourself." —Gix, to Xantcha
"The soul? Here, we have no use for such frivolities." —Sitrik, birth priest
"Ash is our air, darkness our flesh." —Phyrexian Scriptures
The shade tracks victims by reverberations of the pipes, as a spider senses prey tangled in its trembling web.
Urza thought it a crusade. Xantcha knew it was a robbery.
A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt.
Though the reaver is horrifyingly effective, its dorsal vents spit a highly corrosive cloud of filth.
"Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change." —Sitrik, birth priest
"Their fragile world. Their futile lives. They obstruct the Grand Evolution. In Yawgmoth's name, we shall excise them." —Oath of the East
"We decide who is worthy of our works." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
"Yawgmoth spent eons wrapping Phyrexians in human skin. They are the sleeper agents, and they are everywhere." —Xantcha, to Urza
"From void evolved Phyrexia. Great Yawgmoth, Father of Machines, saw its perfection. Thus The Grand Evolution began." —Phyrexian Scriptures
They are Phyrexia's couriers; the messages they carry are inscribed on their slick hides.
Yawgmoth brushed Urza's mind, and Urza's world convulsed.
It's all fun and games until someone loses an eye.
Its windpipe is only the first to amplify its maddening laughter.
"Let weak feed on weak, that we may divine the nature of strength." —Phyrexian Scriptures
"They are bred to suffer and born to die. Much like humans." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
"Grief is as useless as love." —Gix, Yawgmoth praetor
"The land putrefied at its touch, turned into an oily bile in seconds." —Radiant, archangel
It has no face of its own—it wears that of its latest victim.
Spells will shun you, as will everyone else.
Once you've seen one, you'll understand why spells won't go near them.
Although some of the students quickly grasped the concept, the others could summon only blackboards.
"To fill your mind with knowledge, we must start by emptying it." —Barrin, master wizard
Some roads are paved with bad intentions.
When wind marries sky, even the bride's veil sings her praises.
The best cure for a big ego is a little failure.
Afterward, Tolaria's winds were like the whispers of lost wizards, calling for life.
"The most disappointing thing about learning telepathy is finding out how boring people really are." —Teferi, fourth-level student
The flow of time was disrupted; like a flooding river it rose from its banks. Tolaria was drowned in an instant that stretched toward infinity.
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
"I preferred the harsh tutors—they made mischief all the more fun." —Teferi, third-level student
At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide."
Treacherous and unpredictable currents around Tolaria earned the nickname "serpent wakes."
You are not prey until a predator knows of your existence.
"Time flows like a river. In Tolaria we practice the art of building dams." —Barrin, master wizard
That the Tolarian mists parted for the drakes was warning enough to stay away.
Devoured by the mists, Tolaria was stuck in time, trapped between two eternal heartbeats.
The mages of Tolaria found strange ways to spend their free time. Occasionally they had contests to see whose kite was eaten last.
Birds frozen in flight. Sea turned to glass. Tolaria hidden in a mirror.
"It followed me home. Can I keep it?"
In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note.
On its way to the cave, the armadillo brushed by a sapling. It awoke to find a full-grown tree blocking its path.
"Books can be replaced; a prize student cannot. Be patient." —Urza, to Barrin
"As a great whale dies, it flips onto its back. And so an island is born." —Mariners' legend
Buyer beware.
The mage felt as though he'd been in the stasis suit for days. Upon his return, he found it was months.
The academy's libraries were protected by fire-prevention spells. Even after the disaster, the books were intact—though forever sealed in time.
"Teferi is a problem student. Always late for class. No appreciation for constructive use of time." —Barrin, progress report
". . . But I'm not tired!"
It is not unusual for a single family of coral merfolk to spend centuries carefully guiding the growth of the reefs where they make their home.
"I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit." —Barrin, progress report
"All we could lose, we did. All we could keep, we do. And both are shrouded by mists." —Barrin, master wizard
"Without order comes errors, and errors kill on Tolaria." —Barrin, master wizard
"Knowledge is no more expensive than ignorance, and at least as satisfying." —Barrin, master wizard
"A ruler wears a crown while the rest of us wear hats, but which would you rather have when it's raining?" —Barrin, *Principia*
"The solution can hide for only so long." —Urza
It soon became obvious that some experiments were best overseen by fireproof teachers.
The most effective way to destroy a spell is to ensure it was never cast in the first place.
"Believe in the ideal, not the idol." —Serra
"You reek of corruption," spat the knight. "Why are you even here?"
"Life's balance is as a star: on one point is Law, and Law must be upheld. If the knots of order are loosened, chaos will spill through." —Song of All, canto 167
"Opposite Law is Grace, and Grace must be preserved. If the strands of Grace are unraveled, its design will be lost, and the people with it." —Song of All, canto 167
Does the stone mimic life, or did it once live?
The true names of birds are songs woven into their souls.
"The answer to life should never be death; it should always be more life, wrapped tight around us like precious silks."
"Lifted beyond herself, for that battle Brindri was an angel of light and fury." —Song of All, canto 524
"The humans are useful in their way, but they must be commanded as the builder commands the stone. Be soft with them, and they will become soft." —Radiant, archangel
There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it.
"Protect our mother in her womb."
Serra told them to guard Urza as he healed. Five years they stood.
"That they are saved from death is immaterial. What is important is that they know the source of their benefaction." —Radiant, archangel
Peace to all. Peace be all. —Great Hall floor inscription
"From womb of nothingness sprang this place of beauty, purity, and hope realized." —Song of All, canto 3
"The clouds came alive and dove to the earth! Hooves flashed among the dark army, who fled before the spectacle of fury." —Song of All, canto 211
"When the sword becomes a burden, let the warrior lay it aside that another with a truer heart might take it up." —Radiant, archangel
"It is not sad," Radiant chided the lesser angel. "It is right. Every society must have its outcasts."
"Fight? I cannot. I do not care if I live or die, so long as I can rest." —Urza, to Serra
"We plant the seeds of doubt to harvest the crop of wisdom."
"Belief is the strongest mortar."
"We each have our own strengths, Radiant," Serra said with a sly smile. "If all of my people were like this one, who would carry your scrolls?"
"It is not your place to rule, Radiant. It may not even be mine." —Serra
"Xantcha is recovering. The medicine is slow, but my magic would have killed her." —Serra, to Urza
Once heard, the battle song of an angel becomes part of the listener forever.
The power of faith is quiet. It is the leaf unmoved by the hurricane.
Arrows fletched with the feathers of angels seldom miss their mark.
"Let Phyrexia breed evil in the darkness; my holy light will reveal its taint." —Serra
A religious order for religious order.
Beauty is beyond law.
"Your enemies will pound upon the door of your defenses, but only you shall have the key, and it is the key of life." —Song of All, canto 873
"In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing." —Song of All, canto 642
Radiant's eyes flashed. "Go, then," the angel spat at Serra, "and leave this world to those who truly care."
If only every message were as perfect as its bearers.
The very young and the very old know best the song the angels sing.
The strength of law is unwavering. It is an iron bar in a world of water.
In pursuit of Urza, the Phyrexians sent countless foul legions into Serra's realm. Though beaten back, they left it tainted with uncleansable evil.
Indonesia
Great Wall of China
Mt. Fuji, Japan
Singapore
Korea
Japan
Uluru, Australia
Taiwan
Meoto Iwa, Japan
China
New Zealand
Japan
Banaue Rice Terraces, Phillipines
Hong Kong
Japan
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
"The reflection of land interests me far more than its reality." —Volrath
"Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone." —Crovax
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk." —Karn, silver golem
Burl, scurf, and bower Birth fern and flower.
Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan.
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Never taunt an embermage, 'What are you going to do about it?'" —Akin, seasoned askari
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.
Want all, lose all. —Zhalfirin aphorism
"Fetch the pestridder, Paka—we've got dwarves in the rutabagas!" —Jamul, Femeref farmer
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust." —Oracle en-Vec
The seed of a world's evil.
"These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist." —Selenia, dark angel
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
They wouldn't know their house from a charred hole in the ground.
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge." —Crovax
"Glok loved storms He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him." —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Glok loved storms He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him." —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Some believe Sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.
Lightning tethers souls to the world. —Kor saying
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
"Just take a little off the top."
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare." —Crovax
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say." —Jolrael
"I regret feeding Kaervek's hunger for power—far better to live with animals innocent of such ambitions." —Jolrael
"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it." —Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!" —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Prayer rarely explains." —Orim, Samite healer
"A beauty made more so by its fleeting visitations." —Teferi
"No one can catch what won't be caught." —Kakra, Sea Troll
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy." —Volrath
"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again." —Teferi
"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?" —Reveka, Wizard Savant
Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive Kor people.
Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost. —Vec teaching
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."
When the eagle catches a cloud, it tears it into strips that fall to earth. —Vec myth of the rains
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire." —"Hymn of Angelfire"
"Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart."
The Kor forsake roots for the winding of the path; forsake voices for the silence of the mind; forsake all else for the poverty of isolation.
The Weatherlight dragged the Predator behind it, the cradle hauling the casket.
"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities." —Ertai, wizard adept
At last Urza's powers were focused through the incredible artifact. "Who wants pancakes?" he asked.
Nothing beats the lizard's shear power.
Many take the lobster for granite.
The tiger is always quick to fold.
"¡Yo quiero Kormus Bell!"
Only a villain would unleash a giant fan on anyone
And you thought that was just an urban legend.
Every page holds a month, every date a numeral.
Limited time offer. Void where prohibited. Limit one per purchase. Valid only in participating duels. This coupon is nontransferable and invalid if shattered, crumbled, detonated, pillaged, or otherwise disenchanted. Cash value less than 1/20 of a cent. Offer not valid in Quebec, Rhode Island, or where prohibited by law or the DCI.
"Just wait till I get my Leviathan . . . ."
Due to some late-night partying, the chicken missed the group photo.
"And the ignorant shall fall to the squirrels." —Chip 2:54
Mooo.
"Now I lay me down to sleep— What are *you* starin' at?"
MORE TO LOVE: Friendly, nature-loving, Bunyonesque SEM seeks SEF looking for a huge commitment. . . . seeks atog prince
And their bleating was like a wet salmon slapped upon the land—slap! slap! slap!
"Uh-hunh."
The wizard exclaimed, "I'm no chicken . . . ."
. . . that exciting . . . about . . .
The number printed on the card is no longer in service. For help, go to wizards.custhelp.com or find us on Twitter @Wizards_Help.
"I got your milk right here!"
"Nothing comes between me and my Didgeridoos™."
Flog was out of his league—this game wasn't up his alley, but the team couldn't spare him if he split.
"Glok loved bets He'd sit in the bar all night an' laugh an' laugh. Hey—he still owes me." —Squee, goblin casino hand
"I'm facing defeat, . . ."
"That's a lotta nuggets." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Not the graveyard shift again!"
Farmer Brown never ate eggs again.
Have you ever noticed how some flavor text has no relevance whatsoever to the card it's on?
"Lucy, you've got some spleenin' to do."
"That was fun! Now me." —Gwendlyn Di Corci
"You're in for a nasty butt-kickin'."
"I'm back from the Dead," the zombie moaned. "And they were far out, man."
than that. Even bigger. Keep going. More. dreadnoughts for jewelry. It was big!" —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"It was big. Really, really big. No, bigger No, more. Look, we're talking krakens and
"I feel like chicken tonight"
"But next time we meet, . . ."
"Don't worry about it. It happens to every mage sooner or later."
"You didn't say the Magic word."
"Duke, Duke, Duke, Duke of Pearl . . . ."
The Clams down in Clamville All scootered and skittled— "The three is no more" The Clam fiddler fiddled.
"Sorry we shelled your village—here's some gold."
During the Chicken Revolution, the king managed to keep his head while the others—well, just ran around.
Editor's note: There were no suitable flavor text submissions for this card.
"Spring in Dominaria means pastels" —Excerpt from Mage's Home Journal
If yo . . . ted.
Even war can be civil.
"Lo lord of layers proudly comb-crested Hero to hens father to feathers Crowing sun-caller weaver of wattle Elder to eggs." —Rooster Saga
Few understand the DCI's rigorous decision-making process.
Plucking the chicken —Elvish expression meaning "flinging the monkey"
That's what it's all about.
Gimme five! (Or whatever you got.)
In a duel and taking a lickin' . . .
The meat, on the other hand, has frequent visitors.
"While we fought, the il surrendered." —Oracle en-Vec
A sphere pushes equally in all directions.
"Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again." —Karn, silver golem
"It'll get us to the portal, but I can't guarantee what it'll do to the ship." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Give away everything so others have nothing. —Brooch inscription
Hues of recollection flicker like facets of a gem.
"My medicine bag and I have treated countless wounds and illnesses. But never have I seen so many made so sick for so long. We will never eat Squee's cooking again." —Orim, journal
"In Barrin's name!" cried Lyna as Hanna's sword passed through her, "Ertai sends word that the portal is open—but not for long!"
"Hup, two, three, four, Dunno how to count no more." —Mogg march
Secure in the embrace of wood, they want no part of Eladamri's war.
Heartwood brings peace in great symphonies where dryads conduct the trees through every note.
"Civilization is a conspiracy to disguise the mutilation of nature." —Skyshroud elite creed
Subduing and skinning an alligator is the first rite of maturity adolescent merfolk must pass.
"It is the art of convincing someone to live." —Orim, Samite healer
The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep.
Is there any other kind?
"Who you callin' 'shorty'?"
Hunger growls, never purrs.
" . . . And the third little boar built his house out of rootwalla plates . . . ." —Skyshroud children's story
There's little more demeaning than getting your butt kicked by a bunch of bunnies.
Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves.
"Volrath is not the only one who can shape this world to serve him." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin.
How do you map a world when the land moves beneath your feet?
"On my death, I give you this treasure: the knowledge that life is hard, yet too soon past." —Dal funeral rite
A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth.
Music scythes the savage beast.
The flowstone seemed for a moment to assume Greven's rage—it lunged like a wild beast at the Weatherlight.
Most creatures grow out of their baby teeth, but sabertooth wyverns grow into theirs.
There is no such thing as a regiment of ogres.
Build something and the baboons will tear it down. Leave the pieces lying and they will scatter them.
Volrath has bred them to fear only him. Are they charging into battle, or merely fleeing his wrath?
Man versus nature is not a fair fight.
"If we cannot live proudly, we die so!" —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
The last thing to go through the mogg's mind was its teeth.
Ogre shamans must be bright enough to learn their invocations and dim enough to use them.
"Stay."
Only by sacrificing any semblance of defense could Gerrard best Greven.
Living below a flowstone foundry produces a disproportionate number of fire mages among the il.
Furnace air crackles with magmatic cackles.
A stroke of luck can smite an army.
"When I cut down my angel I only started my fall." —Crovax
The crawler doesn't care what gets in its way. It pushes everything into the boiling muck and waits for the meal to cook.
"I'll take that. You won't need it when the revolution comes."
The hounds' barks are a horrifying chorus of screams, moans, and whispers.
"Just take a little off the top."
"Fear rules those weak enough to accept it." —Greven il-Vec
"I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare." —Crovax
Its respiration is your expiration.
"My enemies' death yields threefold benefit: removal, reuse, and research." —Volrath
Any mogg will tell you there's nothing more nauseating than the smell of cute.
"I will flay the skin from your flesh and the flesh from your bones and scrape your bones dry. And still you will not have suffered enough." —Greven il-Vec, to Gerrard
Mogglings caught in a misdeed often blame the grollub. Even though the creature is usually innocent, no taskmaster can resist an excuse to beat it.
"My ship . . . ," Sisay mumbled. "Intact," Gerrard reassured her, "which is more than I can say for you, my friend." Sisay laughed despite the pain.
Life has always been a dance. It is only fitting that death sing the tune.
"All Dauthi are jackals, regardless of breed." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
In their twisted logic, to empty the shadow world is to escape it.
A farewell to arms . . . and feet . . . and legs . . . .
"The blood of the weak shall be the ink with which we scribe great Yawgmoth's glorious name." —Stronghold architect, journal
The il-Kor no longer roam the open plains, but they are still hunters.
Eating is all it knows.
Their favorite food? Wind dancers.
"no home no heart no hope" —Stronghold graffito
Karn and Hanna stood over the recovered Legacy artifacts like loving parents over sleeping children.
"Volrath stole everything there was of me." —Takara
They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness.
"History is a potent weapon." —Karn, silver golem
Some schools aren't worth getting into.
"Read the roots tell the tale Future forms in waving weeds Higher than truth is hope." —Rootwater Saga
"Does this make me look fat?"
The mirozels are the only stars in Rath's opaque skies.
Lyna turned to the figure beside her. "They're gone. What now?" "As ever," said Urza, "we wait."
In the depths of Rootwater, salvage and sewage differ only in texture.
The wizard had it all—until she tried to use it.
Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving.
"Consider the fable of the greedy herder. As her flock grew, so did her weariness; she slept, and the sheep wandered off." —Karn, silver golem
"Was that it?" —Ertai, wizard adept
In Rath, there are only so many souls to go around.
From nothing came teeth.
All Mirri wanted to do was rest, but she couldn't ignore a nagging suspicion as she followed Crovax's skulking form.
". . . Dry-walkers die We feed on sweet flesh . . . ." —Rootwater Saga
The tide of magic brought them here. Now it would take them home.
"Great chains shall free our warriors." —Oracle en-Vec
"What separates junk from treasure is imagination." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
The less you have, the harder you fight for it.
Count carefully the souls and see that none are lost. —Vec teaching
They bear weightier burdens than the shields they carry.
Shackles of gold are still shackles.
War favors the informed.
Three are the paths of the soul: One out—roam across the plain, One back—dwell with tribe and tent, One in—turn an enemy's hate.
"Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart."
The true treasure no thief can touch.
In war, as in society, position is everything.
If dragons excel at anything more than vanity, it is greed.
Selenia had hurt Mirri terribly, but injuries of the flesh could be treated. The wounds she had torn in Crovax's soul would never close.
"Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds."
The Weatherlight dragged the Predator behind it, the cradle hauling the casket.
Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength.
"Stay."
It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it.
"They serve the world best on a platter with shallots and onions." —Talas sailor
The deeper the wood, the greater its strength.
"What was taken shall be restored." —Arathel, elvish queen
The bears had been isolated on an island for hundreds of years, until the island sank and the bears didn't.
Death just encourages life the more.
One razorclaw is three bears too many. —Elvish saying
"I'd hate to see the bird that could get this wurm!" —Alaborn soldier
"The woods hold peace for those who desire it, but those who seek battle will find me."
"Trade my moose? Sure—when I find a horse that can spear ten goblins at a time!"
Some trees bear deadly fruit.
"'Air superiority?' Not while our archers scan the skies." —Elvish scout
"Every seed planted is another lesson the forest can teach us." —Arathel, elvish queen
The dying ask for water because they know it contains life.
The nightstalkers' little game of tease-the-squirrel suddenly took an unexpected turn.
Rarely seen, hardly heard, never caught.
The good news is it's vegetarian. The bad news is it just doesn't like you.
The elvish scout was scrupulous about the truth. She told the traders that gold lay nearby.
Busy as a bumblebee, blistered as a goblin. —Alaborn saying
Every little cub has its mother's teeth to guard it. —Elvish saying
In its lair lies a carpet of bones.
No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness.
Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge.
One little goblin shook up the ground. When the dust cleared, no one was found.
There goes the neighborhood!
He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged.
Assault and battery included.
Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two.
The machine does the growling, so the ogre's free to smile.
After a while, ships stopped sailing within his reach.
Meant to cut through the body and burn straight to the soul.
"Goblins cry, soldiers fly. Stones fly, soldiers die!"
"I seen lots o' fights. To win ya gotta bash hard and not get bashed back." —Goblin grunt
Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty.
Goblin mountaineer, barely keeps his family fed.
"I done forgot more than you'll ever know, pipsqueak." "Yeah—that's your problem."
The goblins call the gliders "death from above." Everyone else calls them "clods in the clouds."
Lead, follow, or run around like crazy.
They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves.
"This isn't what I meant by 'facing the heat of battle!'" —Jefan, Talas ship captain
"Life from death is part of the natural cycle. This is merely a shortcut." —Tojira, swamp queen
Knives in the sky, cries in the air, and blood on the ground.
"Our steeds need food, water, stabling. Theirs just need prey." —Restela, Alaborn marshal
Silent as a serpent, twisted as a lone bog tree, evil as Tojira's heart.
Part metal, part bone, and all death.
"Just as some fool said it couldn't get worse, the rats began to show up." —Alaborn soldier
The dead sing their own lullabies.
The shadows know.
"I'd sooner lock lips with a viper. At least I might walk away from that." —Elvish scout
The touch of death is never gentle.
"Our greatest hope has become our enemy's greatest triumph." —Restela, Alaborn marshal
A scorpion this big you won't find curled up in your boot. Maybe around your boot, but not in it.
The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon.
The bat thrives on what underestimates it.
"Such a fragile organ, the brain." —Tojira, swamp queen
"Human tenderness is simply weakness in a pretty package." —Tojira, swamp queen
When nightstalkers sing, nothing in creation sleeps.
"I have all the weapons my enemies have—and far deeper rage." —Tojira, swamp queen
"Knowledge demands sacrifice." —Tojira, swamp queen
It pays to be at home both on the sea and in the sky.
"I don't want what I don't have. I want more of what I do have."
"The ogre had come from out of the blue, so that's where I sent it back." —Talas wizard
Four little goblins, trapped by the sea. One teased a serpent, and then there were three.
"First they fight, then they sleep, then they dream. And finally I receive my reward."
Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last.
The sea is in their blood. Literally.
"Scouting a battle before you fight it is just good business." —Jefan, Talas ship captain
From time, knowledge. From knowledge, power.
The trader let loose a laugh that made all around him check their purses.
"Their ships pollute our air as they themselves pollute our forest." —Arathel, elvish queen
"Is it merchants or is it pirates?" "It's Talas—there's no difference."
The sea gives, and the sea takes. Some just help with the taking.
History is the study of repetition.
"Information equals profits. Our merchants sell it, or our pirates use it." —Jefan, Talas ship captain
As insubstantial, and as powerful, as the wind that carries it.
Two little goblins, out in the sun. Down came a griffin, and then there was one.
People fight hardest on their own soil.
A bullet renders all sizes equal.
Battle tempers soldiers as fire tempers steel.
"So he gots a sword. Big deal." "Yeah, it's a big deal—it's a big sword!" —Two goblins outside the gates of Trokin
"Give us breath. Give us life. Prepare us for the day we make." —The Alaborn "Rite of Battle"
Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it.
"You idiots! Turn it around! Turn it around!"
"Bravery shines brightest in a pure soul." —Restela, Alaborn marshal
"You could die famous or you could die old. I chose old." —Former soldier
Everyone loves a good sale.
Bargaining with a goblin is like trading with a child; both believe they already own everything.
War destroys more than just the land. War destroys hope.
Be at peace, and observe its beauty. Be at war, and feel its justice.
The man who rose up to fight was not the same man knocked down.
"I dedicate my body to my country And my life to my King." —Alaborn Soldier's Oath
Muskets gave the Alaborn army an advantage it had long lacked—air defense.
"Ever proud, ever vigilant." —Grenadier motto
"Course he ran! I wouldn't want to stare down that barrel, either!" —Alaborn soldier
The seed of a world's evil.
One shard of Selenia yet remained.
"You'd almost think Volrath doesn't want me here." —Gerrard
"Rath grows, and I am nourished." —Volrath
"Finding a true heartstone is even harder than finding a true heart." —Hanna
"I expected a fight, but I didn't expect it from the building itself." —Gerrard
"Pain is a crude way to enforce obedience, but it is cheap and plentiful." —Volrath
"We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole."
"Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry." —Mogg children's rhyme
Her children are ever part of her.
Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature.
Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught.
The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel.
Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact.
"Watch yourself," warned Starke. "These plants aren't nice when they're hungry."
"As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'" —Dal myth of the wurm
"We were not made for war. Like flowstone, Volrath shaped us to it." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
In Rath, arrows are guided not by virtue but by necessity.
Mirri did not have time to think, only to react.
"Charge!" A great cry went out, and countless elves and Vec soldiers charged up the mountain. Their fury and passion hid the fact that they were horribly outnumbered.
Life needs no encouragement.
Hope is the one crop that can grow in any climate.
Unlike their cousins, Rathi basilisks turn their victims into puddles of flowstone.
Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed.
These are its last days. Its doom to be remembered only until the hunters hunger again.
As the bough stretches, so shall you grow. As the roots spread, so shall you thrive.
There is no drake that flies faster than a crossbow bolt. —Vec saying
The hunter would never forget the time or place where he first met the carnassid, for they buried him there.
"The plants said, 'We will fight the stone with root and stem and seed. We are patient. We will win.'" —Skyshroud myth of the forest
"There are times when destiny calls forth a people and demands an action. Now is the time. We are the people. This is our action. Charge!" —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"In this blessed structure let the very walls baptize themselves in the blood of intruders." —Stronghold architect, journal
Lightning tethers souls to the world. —Kor saying
"We have built a wall upon sand. The wall will vanish. The sand will remain." —Oracle en-Vec
Stand clear if he gets an itch.
They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is.
Behind every great mogg bomber is another mogg with a shovel and a basket.
A single stone can start an avalanche.
Gerrard studied the globe as Mirri kept watch. Suddenly, his eyes widened. "This is Dominaria!"
"Takara, it's me!" shouted Starke. It was no use—she obeyed Volrath.
If it can survive the Furnace, you don't want it near you.
Flowstone troops are notoriously difficult to keep in formation.
Once these horrifying creatures were perfected, there was no need for armodons.
Volrath leaves no stone untrained.
"Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight." —Karn, silver golem
It's raining rats and moggs.
"I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black." —Oracle en-Vec
"The mountain's ducts will be like organ pipes, amplifying the glorious roar of the dying." —Stronghold architect, journal
What is high as a mountain and low as a snake? —Dal riddle
Crovax's rage was horrifying. Within moments only blood and shreds of flesh remained of the shapeshifter.
"It is the nature of evil to turn you against yourself." —Starke
"There are terrors lurking in the unseen corners of us all." —Crovax
"Volrath has killed me. All that remains of me is the scar!" —Tahngarth
"With the completion of each joyous task, we are closer to Yawgmoth's divine vision." —Stronghold architect, journal
The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats.
A hiss before dying.
"Not again." —Hans
Every sentence in Volrath's prisons ends the same way.
"Think of them not as failures but as works in progress." —Volrath
It's so hard to find good help these days.
"You can run from your pain," explained Gerrard to Crovax, "but take it from experience: you will tire before it does."
"The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave." —Crovax
The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died.
A sickness stirs in its eyes, a nightmare born in darkened wails.
For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home. As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled.
Merfolk tell their young of Dandân, humans of Rag Man. Dal tell tales of the Dauthi, and they are far worse.
"Mine."
"I'm sure it came with the place. I don't think you build one on purpose." —Gerrard
"Many have been lost to pity." —Karn, silver golem
Dreams, by definition, live shorter lives than those who dream them.
The tide of battle favors those who can swim.
"It is nature that gives us our boundaries and nature that enforces them." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Sea brine for blood, washing foam for laughter.
"Twice I have let the Legacy slip away. Never again." —Karn, silver golem
Insult, like an arrow, is beyond control once loosed.
"The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy." —Volrath
Mirri leapt quickly and silently. The guard died likewise.
Mirri was startled by Volrath's apparition—it had no scent.
Gerrard hesitated, looking up at the enemy ship. The future hesitated with him, changed forever by the pause.
Cross the eyes of a hammerhead and you'll dot its teeth.
The first step of every exodus is from the blood and the fire onto the trail.
"To think that some find sleep a restful state." —Volrath
Within without.
"Predictable little man. In all these years you taught me so much yet learned so little." —Volrath, to Starke
Clouds are the soil, dreams are the crop. —Kor saying
"Let no child be without a sword. We will all fight, for if we fail, we will certainly all die." —Oracle en-Vec
She represents not hope, but hope's desperate fury.
Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive Kor people.
The ceiling and the floor fell in love, but only the wall knew. —Dal saying
Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul.
"I don't need a plan, just a goal. The rest will follow on its own." —Gerrard
Death free throat from thirst, mouth from speech, feet from earth. —Kor requiem
"You've got your childhood wish at last. Now you get to die." —Gerrard, to Volrath
The falcon slits the sky to let the light drip through. —Kor saying
"Enjoy your deception, Vuel," Gerrard said as Volrath's features melted from the dead shapeshifter. "I'll count this one as practice."
Knit bone, darn flesh, Stitch skin, weave breath. —Samite healing ritual
"That which knows itself cannot be shaped to another's will." —Oracle en-Vec
Walls collapse and kill people all the time. Some are just more aggressive about it.
The Kor forsake roots for the winding of the path; forsake voices for the silence of the mind; forsake all else for the poverty of isolation.
Nearly all sets of Kor twins are trained as lancers.
"It is not a choice I make, to have this guard. It is the choice of my people, and my duty to them." —Oracle en-Vec
After an hour in the hidey-hole, Squee seriously pondered the advantages of danger over boredom.
It was not the minotaur's shoulders but his soul that bore the heaviest weight.
"How fascinating it is to watch the machinations of one's own mind play themselves out." —Volrath
Takara shook with guilt. She knew the last image her father had seen was her sword flashing toward him.
"Not again." —Hans
"Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall." —Gamelon, Citanul elder
After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal.
"The land promises nothing and keeps its promise." —Oracle en-Vec
"The reflection of land interests me far more than its reality." —Volrath
"The air here smells like a grave." —Crovax
There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead. —Vec tomb inscription
Its growl is a long, rumbling grind of gears and clockwork, its bark a blast of hissing steam.
"We will start small, I think." —Volrath
After losing several of the devices to midair collisions, Greven forbade moggs from operating telethopters.
Time passes, time crawls; Time doesn't move at all.
As the horrors closed in on Gerrard, Squee trembled and clutched his toy for comfort. He didn't know where it came from or why it was so warm, but he was glad he'd kept it near.
"This has nothing to do with what you know and everything to do with what I wish." —Volrath
"Have no illusions," Volrath warned Greven, "about free will."
"They are convenient in having no souls, but less so in having no spirit." —Volrath
Every page cost a life; every secret cost a thousand more.
"Just when I get them working, they always start fighting and tearing at each other for spare parts." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Moggs never volunteer for anything twice.
When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger.
Hanna regarded Squee sternly. "Because it's not a toy, no matter how much it may look like one," she said, taking the manakin from him.
"Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed."
"Here."
"Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone." —Crovax
Squee: "What's that?" Ertai: "It's a magical book." Squee: "Am I smart enough ta use it?" Ertai: "You could say that."
The sculptor, weary of his work, created art that would finish itself.
Like a kettle set to boil, it must eventually go off—on someone.
It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale.
The bite of the tinviper feels most like a razor drawn across the tongue.
"I am reminded of the fable of the silver egg. Its owner cracks it open to see what jewels it holds, only to discover a simple yellow yolk." —Karn, silver golem
"It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness." —Volrath
"Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you."
"Heat of battle" is usually a metaphor.
"Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"I am light. I am dark. I must give my life to serve; not even death can release me." —Selenia, dark angel
"If only we could so easily leave behind those parts of ourselves that pain us." —Crovax
"The path of least resistance will seldom lead you beyond your doorstep." —Oracle en-Vec
Summer is buried there, centuries deep; A crypt of years where seasons sleep.
"Only the most sophisticated inventions can survive nature's unsophisticated motivations." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Burl, scurf, and bower Birth fern and flower.
These are its last days. But it will not go quietly.
"Peace will come, but whether born of harmony or entropy I cannot say." —Oracle en-Vec
These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass.
The calmest day on Rath would be thought a storm anywhere else.
The elves and merfolk have nothing but bitterness for each other. The trolls, however, find them both rather tasty.
"Just as you see the grave and remember the friend, I see this forest and remember Llanowar." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"It is our duty to endure." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"We shun them not for their dream but for their refusal to let such a noble dream die a noble death." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence.
If you try to sneak up on a rootwalla, you'll suddenly find yourself dealing with twice the lizard.
As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk.
"We should step up repairs. I think the forest has plans for us." —Crovax
"If they board us we're finished," warned Orim. Crovax nodded. "And if they don't . . . what then?"
"Let Volrath choke on his crop of hatred." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"See how you like it." —Ertai, wizard adept
Rath forces plants from its surface as one presses whey from cheese.
"No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on me?" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"You want to know your enemy? Look at your feet while you trample him." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
The rain is driven like nails.
"One day the land will don the semblance of flesh and challenge even the plowshare's blade." —Oracle en-Vec
Mirri listened intently, even as Hanna held the healing water to her lips. Would the sound of the spring drown out the elves' approach?
The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle.
Hanna was astounded. Mirri read every leaf and wisp of breeze like a book of ancient lore.
"A perfect reflection of its world: brutal, fetal, and lacking truth." —Oracle en-Vec
A bristling wave of slivers broke against the Weatherlight's timbers.
"In all my years in Llanowar I never understood where trees fit in. They are revered by elves and watered on by dogs." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
Wind in the trees is soothing, but the same can't be said for trees on the wind.
To snare what lies between worlds takes the patient reach of trees.
Changing Rath's landscape is like tearing the scab from a wound.
"If the druids are so devoted to their trees, I will carve them coffins from their precious heartwood." —Volrath
"But why can't I get one?" sniveled Squee. "All da bugs here got wings."
Too many choices will always distract a greedy beast.
"If a creature is dumb enough to love you for leashing it, why would you want to follow its lead?" —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"We have been patient. We have planned our attack. We are ready . . . now." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
The mushroom wine made Gerrard's head spin, and his stomach soon followed suit.
"The land gives up little, but we are masters of persuasion." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.
These are its last days. Mourning is over. Rage remains.
"One day we shall walk where once was water." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"Is it wrong to go straight for what you want? Sneaking is for cats and goblins." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"We know our place in the cycle of life—and it is not as flies." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"I think I used up all my good luck and all my bad luck in the same fall." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Like a sugar stick with wings!" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
Monkeys three, monkeys through.
Squee bounced up and down. "I sees a horsey, an' a piggy, an' a—" "If you don't shut up," hissed Mirri, "you'll see a kidney and a spleeny."
Wurm heads appear Wild wurm near Wurm tails you see Wild wurm flee
"The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"You deify nature as female—kind and gentle—yet you cringe at what is natural." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Taste my horns!" —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
The Predator roared like an unruly beast, and the Weatherlight suddenly listed. "No!" screamed Hanna.
"I concede it was a cheap shot, but it was the only one I could afford." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"The land shall beg for drink and curse the rain that follows." —Oracle en-Vec
"I know to whom I owe the most loyalty, and I see him in the mirror every day." —Starke
"Such fuss over machines, Gerrard. Remember that you are the prize of the Legacy. Throw away your toys!" —Orim, Samite healer
"You've not seen a storm until you've seen the kind that roars between worlds." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"Fire cleanses as well as destroys; that is the nature of change." —Oracle en-Vec
"I used to describe something stable as 'rock solid.' So much for that expression." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Such rage," thought Vhati, gazing up at the thunderhead from the Predator. "It is Greven's mind manifest."
"His tongue must be honey, the way he gathers ants to fight with him." —Volrath
Wrap the flame as twine Kingdoms will be thine.
The old Vec tell tales of a beast that fed on scraps but turned its nose up at the lavish banquet they set in its honor.
The third time the Oracle glanced suspiciously at him, Starke decided she had glanced twice too often.
As Gerrard and Greven neared each other, the moggs caught between them realized they should flee.
As they crept into the Weatherlight's hold, the squad leader held up his hand and whispered, "Stop, goblins—what's that sound?"
The evisceration of one mogg always cheers up the rest.
"I got it! I got it! I—"
"Torahn's horns! They've seen us. Now, statue, you must fight to save yourself!" —Tahngarth, aboard the Predator
"Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick."
A lightning elemental once killed an entire tribe of merfolk—simply by going for a swim.
"Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do." —Selenia, dark angel
Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility.
The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange.
Gerrard looked all around for the source of the mysterious pulse, and at that moment the slivers boiled forth from the crevasses.
As Orim put the lightning rod into place on the bow, she cast a spell of protection to shield herself from the heat. That's when the Furnace got personal.
The match between Tahngarth and Greven was close only in the mind of the minotaur.
One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock.
"Crovax seems filled only with shadows," thought Orim. "Where does his strength come from?"
"Where I come from, stone stays on the ground." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
The Furnace of Rath is periodically illuminated by their sparkling yawns.
When the first of these giants woke from the bedrock, he was still sleepy. He yawned and stretched until his legs grew so thin that they snapped like icicles in the sun. —Vec lore
"Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation." —Karn, silver golem
"If they don't pinch, they burn. Can't ya eat any of da bugs here?" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Carrion! Keep your distance. My blade will come to you!" —Crovax
It is the forge of kings.
"Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered.
"These runes are tough enough without the distraction," Ertai muttered, one eye on the drake.
"The fishers will throw out their nets and draw them back filled with dust." —Oracle en-Vec
"When Torahn bellows, none survive—not even the warrior whose horns he rides." —Talruum adage
Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the Weatherlight.
"There is a future in which I can see only mist and a single shadow." —Oracle en-Vec
Ertai volunteered to open the portal. He figured he owed it one.
"Every act of destruction has a repercussion." —Karn, silver golem
"This one has not screamed enough to show effective implantation. Kill it." —Volrath
Don't drink and thrive.
"If it tastes one drop of elvish blood I will cast it from the shroud to see it burn." —Eladamri, Lord of Leaves
"Volrath is a harsh master. My reflection is a constant reminder of that." —Greven il-Vec
"They are called 'fowl' for a reason." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"First blood isn't as important as last blood." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"My plan's elegance leads my enemies to believe it is spite that fuels me." —Volrath
"You will learn to earn death." —Volrath
"These creatures offer new challenges in the scrutiny of entrails." —Oracle en-Vec
"These rains cannot quench; they carve the land's face like a scalpel on flesh." —Crovax
The moans of the Death Pits were underscored by the chattering of imps, for whom the ship was cause for much discussion.
"There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments." —Oracle en-Vec
"They share more than their thoughts. We must shatter their link quickly!" —Hanna, to Orim
From the mists it rises, into the mists it retreats; through the mists it walks, fearless and unseen.
Fall like night upon the foe. —Motto of the Knights of Dusk
A full coffin is like a full coffer—both are attractive to thieves.
"Tell me again why you failed to capture Gerrard, you worthless pile of spine." —Volrath, to Greven
"I once had an entire race killed just to listen to the rattling of their dried bones as I waded through them." —Volrath
Crovax had witnessed Selenia lead the Predator to the Weatherlight. As the battle raged on deck, he felt his strength melt in the heat of her betrayal.
"I have made Crovax weep; now I will make him scream. The pain will not end, but will bind him to me." —Volrath
Crovax gazed upon the dead, and for one dark moment he saw a banquet.
"These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist." —Selenia, dark angel
Greven il-Vec lifted Vhati off his feet. "The fall will give you time to think on your failure."
As the sludge below began to shift and take shapes, Gerrard turned from the railing to Orim. "I suppose," he said, "it's a little too late for prayer, isn't it?"
"They have knives for every soul." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"The Dauthi believe they dignify murder by paying for it." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"The Dauthi came from beneath the Ruins one night, and the darkness cast them in the best possible light." —Soltari Tales of Life
"The Dauthi army grows by screams and bounds." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"In this dark place, yes, I am afraid of my own shadow." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it." —Volrath
"It is the way of most wizards to begin by exiling themselves and to end by exiling everyone else." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Rage is the only freedom left me." —Greven il-Vec
"There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail." —Volrath
"One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Once they've marked you," Starke said, "the world is made of glass."
"You are wrong," Volrath said. "I do not hate the living. They often prove quite useful to me." And then he laughed.
As Gerrard's form vanished into the maw of trees, Hanna mouthed a silent plea, mourning a crushed dream.
"Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
Orim regarded Gerrard coolly. "You are like the drake," she said, her expression unchanging. "It works hard to maintain its position, but to us it seems to glide along effortlessly. You must do the same."
"Flying like a bird does not make you as free as one." —Volrath
"I followed her song only to find it was a dirge." —Crovax
"In a world of untruths, the living lie rules." —Oracle en-Vec
Battles are won in nuance.
It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough.
"Let's do it again!" —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"Gone today, here tomorrow." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Ill luck and poor geography caught the Thalakos between us and the Dauthi." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"You see our world when you shut your eyes so tightly that tiny shapes float before them." —Lyna, to Ertai
"They are 'between' in every way." —Lyna, Soltari emissary
"Why should I flatter another with imitation when I can satisfy myself through possession?" —Ertai, wizard adept
Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force.
Condor's flight augurs sleepless night. —Skyshroud proverb
The brighter the wings, the deeper the impact crater.
Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with.
"Ugh! When did orcs and fish start having kids?" —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Bitter water vicious wave Shadow-cold shallows root-made maze Home's angry embrace." —Rootwater Saga
"Drop a dagger into the murky deep and the merfolk will cut your throat with it." —Skyshroud saying
"You've failed Gerrard. You've failed the Legacy. You've failed yourself. I can do no more." —Volrath, to Karn
A gleam like struggling sunlight penetrated Selenia's dark thoughts.
"A jigsaw puzzle that lives, breeds, and thinks." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up." —Ertai, wizard adept
From its maw comes neither word nor whisper—only wind.
"Water is firmament to the finned." —Oracle en-Vec
"And when this land is wasted, where will we go?" —Thalakos lament
Squee tucked the warm ball in his pocket and slipped a pebble in its place. 'Glok,' he mumbled, and hid.
"We can fight with you or against you. After my day, I'd prefer the former." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath." —Selenia, dark angel
During the giant crabs' mating season, Skyshroud nights are filled with the clatter of their skirmishes.
"It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives." —Ertai, wizard adept
Two things are needed to survive the harsh skies of Rath: a thick hide and a thicker skull.
"The sanctity of poverty is an invention of the rich." —Starke
"There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny." —Ertai, wizard adept
"It was probably a lousy spell in the first place." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Temper, temper." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Deep devourer concealed in darkhome Shrouded it seeks all becomes fodder Once we swam alone and asea But no more." —Rootwater Saga
"There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence." —Oracle en-Vec
"Flame grows gentle with but a little distance." —Orim, Samite healer
"Keep them at sword's length!" Gerrard's order fell flat as each sliver's talon suddenly grew longer. "Hold on—break out the polearms!"
"Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!" —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Dauthi blood is Soltari wine." —Soltari Tales of Life
"In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer."
"Prayer rarely explains." —Orim, Samite healer
"In times of war the victors rarely save their best for last." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Children of the Ruins, raised to be warriors, know that life begins when another speaks their names." —Soltari Tales of Life
Alone at the portal, Ertai began his meditation. He realized immediately that he was not alone.
"Carry war to the Dauthi, no matter the way, no matter the world." —Soltari battle chant
"A sacrifice made in peace is worth a dozen made in panic." —Orim, Samite healer
"I'm amused by wasted effort when it's not my own." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"The cannon wasn't aimed at you!" pleaded Vhati. "I'm not sure which is more pathetic," replied Greven, "your judgment or your aim."
The first Rath-born pegasus was so offended by the sky that it hid its eyes in the earth. —Vec lore
Frozen by conscience, Karn did not resist as the moggs carried him to the Predator.
"The silkworm spins itself a new existence. So the healer weaves the threads of life." —Orim, Samite healer
"As usual, there will be time for prayer only after the worst happens." —Orim, Samite healer
"A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Strapping on nine hundred pounds of armor every morning would make any warrior cross." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes." —Volrath
Flash like daybreak to the fray. —Motto of the Knights of Dawn
"One cannot cleanse the wounds of failure." —Karn, silver golem
"Destiny, chance, fate, fortune—they're all just ways of claiming your successes without claiming your failures." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I protect the Legacy with my life if necessary, for its purpose is far more important than my own." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!"
"Forgive me," Mirri whispered. "I thought you a burden, and you saved my life." Hanna quietly accepted the apology.
"Precision is frequently more valuable than force." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The swarm seemed unmoved by the artificial slivers' destruction. "They clearly were not the leaders," Hanna cursed. "I guess we'll have to do this the hard way."
When the eagle catches a cloud, it tears it into strips that fall to earth. —Vec myth of the rains
"Faith's shield is hammered out by the blows of unbelievers." —Oracle en-Vec
The auratog enjoys eating its wards.
"I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits." —Tahli en-Dal, bounty hunter
Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other." Mirri: "After they've done trying to kill us, all right?"
"My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait." —Crovax
"The soldier's path is worn smooth by the tread of many feet—all in one direction, none returning." —Oracle en-Vec
Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them.
"When once winter has ahold, Not willingly does she withdraw her icy touch, wistfully caressing— The deepened air sleeps its cold." —Aline Corralurn, "Late Thaw"
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"We were holding our own—until the ogre guiding us suddenly grinned and turned on our commander." —Ivra Jursdotter, Sarpadian mercenary
"Ashes and dust; dust and ashes. Hope it works before it smashes." —Argivian children's rhyme
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"What need have I for cavalry when I can have horse and rider both in one?" —Jolrael
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire." —Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire." —Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
To keep the dead so others may live. —Shadow Guild maxim
"When are trees like grass?" —The One Thousand Questions
The wurm's weave —Elvish expression meaning "plowed fields"
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war." —Afari, Tales
"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket." —Liefellen, Quirion exarch
"The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers." —Afari, Tales
"My horizon was the arcing petals, my new home resplendent with spires of weeds and pillows of fragrant pollen." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side." —Telim'Tor
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"Politics is a game—move a stone here, move a stone there—except sometimes the stones bleed." —Shauku, Endbringer
"Anybody want some . . . toast?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Anybody want some . . . toast?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
The necratog can always dig up a meal.
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say." —Jolrael
"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it." —Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior.
"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Oh, I'm sorry—did I break your concentration?
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Fear the mists, for they are armed.
"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again." —Teferi
"You know you've angered the gods when the clouds turn against you." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities." —Ertai, wizard adept
At what price beauty?
"Until you have lived as a statue, do not talk to me of pigeons." —Karn, silver golem
"One touch to the stone and the sidar's son turned me from stalwart to statue." —Karn, silver golem
Every line holds a tale, and between lie a thousand more.
"This will work," Gerrard called to the elves as he used the forge to strengthen the aboroth, "but if it doesn't, we won't survive to care."
"Don't look at me. I didn't build it." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Although I would give my life to protect Gerrard, my conscience will not let me take another's. There are many who would not hesitate." —Karn, silver golem
"Whereas I was created to protect, the biskelion was created to destroy." —Karn, silver golem
Gerrard: "But it doesn't do anything!" Hanna: "No—it does nothing."
"We always look upon our first creations as masterpieces, no matter how awful they are." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"A sharp conscience is the weapon of the soul." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"This device was commisioned by a king who desired peace. Unfortunately, the royal artificer was also the king's jester." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"After waking to the magic of Llanowar, no dreams can compare." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"The Uktabi efreet and I have something in common: both of our mothers wanted to give us back." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Even the fiercest storm has a peaceful eye." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"The bear is never cautious—which is why it wasn't born a human." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"When are trees like grass?" —The One Thousand Questions
"In the heart of Llanowar the magic is so strong that trees cannot stay rooted." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
Spring follows winter —Elvish expression meaning "all things pass"
"I cradle my rage even as the earth cradles my dead kin." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Ewww!"
"The forest has as many eyes as leaves." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"This forest means more to the druids than their own kin. The loss of a tree is like the loss of a child." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The wurm's weave —Elvish expression meaning "plowed fields"
I rot growth and grow rot. What am I? —Elvish riddle
"I'd rather fight on foreign soil. That way, if I lose I can blame it on the terrain." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
The wurm's wake —Elvish expression meaning "ruined crops"
"Big plants not only good for hidin', but full o' tasty bugs, too." —Squee, goblin cabin hand
Thinking of dinner made Squee realize that the forest was probably thinking the same thing.
In all its forms, the forest is the elves' best protector.
"I place this wreath for you, my kin. Even in death, you give me strength to avenge you." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"No matter where we cat warriors go in the world, those stupid slobberers find us." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
The Weatherlight banked sharply as the colossal beast rose up to crush the lone rider. "My bet's on the dirt," Gerrard said flatly.
Its hooves strike lightning and the thunder follows quickly after.
"Most wizards consider a thunderbolt to be a proper retort." —Ertai, wizard adept
"You will sharpen your teeth on my enemies' bones," Maraxus promised them, and his ogres cheered.
They wouldn't know their house from a charred hole in the ground.
"I have no master. I am chaos." —Maraxus of Keld
They say lava conquers all.
What cats bury, dogs eat. —Urborg aphorism
"I believe it when they say they're connected to the land—looks like somebody plowed her face." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Stroke of heat or stroke of blade. Choose your fate, traitor." —Maraxus of Keld, to Starke
For once, Squee realized, he wasn't the dumb one.
"Anger is fleeting; remorse is eternal." —Karn, silver golem
"Glok loved storms! He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him." —Squee, goblin cabin hand
"If your blood doesn't run hot, I will make it run in the sands!" —Maraxus of Keld
"I may be small, but I can kick your butt."
"Mine is not the warmth of compassion." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Easy. All ya gotta do is push somebody into it." —Squee, goblin cabin hand, scouting report
"The giant wept tears of embers for the deaths of his allies." —Azeworai, "The Lonely Giant"
Your father has no horns! Your mother wears a bell! You drink the milk of goats! —Talruum taunts
"The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"He's big an' dumb an' ready to fight. A lot like ol' Hornhead here." —Squee, goblin cabin hand, scouting report
"You can't get there from here. Well, you can—it just won't be fun." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Pick a shell upon my shore and put it to your ear. That sound isn't the sea, but the whispers of the fallen." —Crovax
The sea of fear has endless depths.
"May you be a stalker's dream." —Urborg curse
"It is a narrow line between justice and vengeance." —Crovax
"Because I am incapable of tears does not mean I have no need to shed them." —Karn, silver golem
"I have seen the night torn into thin darkling strips and woven into shapes too bleak for dreams." —Crovax
"You must be mad to want one such as I aboard the Weatherlight. But I would be mad to remain here with my rotting family. I accept." —Crovax
In its world of complete darkness, it has no shadows to fear.
"Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us." —Crovax
By the time you've seen it, you won't remember that you did.
The necratog can always dig up a meal.
"I looked into its eyes, and its soul was so empty I saw no reflection, no light there." —Crovax
"The past is a ghost that haunts you from the moment it exists until the moment you don't." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I would not barter my soul for any of the filth that they called power. So they took it from me and damned me to solitude." —Crovax
Lifespans are measured by its dreadful length.
"I am condemned without end." —Crovax
"If its skin looks like stone, it is only to match its heart." —Crovax
"The young can be quite dangerous. Trust me, I should know." —Ertai, wizard adept
"What is crueler? To let a wound of the heart fester, or to simply cut it out?" —Crovax
Serpentine locks shape ornate rocks.
"Is it worse to walk while dead, or to be buried alive? I have witnessed both." —Crovax
"They killed my family to deny me a future. They fed on my ancestors to deny me a past." —Crovax
"An innocent man died because of my anger. That knowledge will haunt me for all eternity." —Karn, silver golem
"There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Torahn gore these shifty fishtails! You can't even get close to one." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"When the fishtails' threats of magic didn't move me, they set their pet on us." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Why should I boast? The bards will do it for me—and with music." —Ertai, wizard adept
Many have been lost just in staring at its wings. What's seen differs from account to account, but madness is always part of the story.
"I sneezed, and it bolted." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I don't like to speak ill of 'walkers . . . but just what did Teferi think he was doing?" —Ertai, wizard adept
The owl asks but never answers.
"Barrin taught me that the hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned." —Ertai, wizard adept
"Tolaria floats upon a wheel of fortune." —Ertai, wizard adept
"But you said 'when goats fly!'" Squee whined.
"Fishtails infest the water, and mists walk the land. Give me simple solid rock any day." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
As insubstantial—and as insistent—as appetite.
"Barrin always said that reality is relative. 'The world,' he cautioned, 'is but pieces of one's perception.'" —Ertai, wizard adept
"As much as I hate water, I do love fish . . . ." —Mirri of the Weatherlight
"The Lord of the Wastes must be destroyed; I am bound to this destiny by the chains of fate. If only Gerrard would see his part." —Sisay, journal
"I've seen fog so thick you could cut it, but none that could cut me." —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"Every spell has the potential to be worthless." —Ertai, wizard adept
Oh, I'm sorry—did I break your concentration?
As elusive as the footprint of a djinn —Suq'Ata expression
"Maybe we can trap them with bait," thought Tahngarth, eyeing Squee.
"The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
Mirri's hackles rose as Ertai continued expounding his virtues. "If that arrogant brat doesn't shut up soon," she growled to herself, "I'm going to have to kill him."
"I'm always a little leery of anyone who offers to kill other people for free." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Look to the south; there you will find peace and serenity." —The Book of Tal
"The sidar who raised me had a saying: 'The first step into death is the hardest.'" —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I have seen your strength imbued in angels' wings, and I have felt your sorrow rain down on the ruins brought by the Lord of the Wastes." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"Just think of me as the storm before the calm." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"I felt unworthy even to dream of it." —Hanna, Weatherlight navigator
"I have always imagined my mother as such a woman, strong and wise." —Sisay, journal
"Being the best usually means proving it to everyone." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Save me from Maraxus," Starke pleaded, "or condemn me to his wrath. Either way, do not ignore me!"
"Archers, ballistae—you can't even get near the island of Avenant." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"If you can kill your enemy with the first stroke, you save yourself the labor of the second." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Fighting without an army is called a duel, and you'll lose a duel if your enemy comes expecting a war." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"A double-edged sword lets you cut down your enemies with the backswing as well." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire." —"Hymn of Angelfire"
"Seaborne ships have their dolphins to dance in their wakes; I have my duskriders." —Sisay, journal
"I killed him because I had to," Starke lied to Gerrard. "But now I pledge my loyalty to you."
"These horn-haters say no gods but theirs exist. I say let him find out for himself—right now!" —Tahngarth of the Weatherlight
"We called them 'armored lightning.'" —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"My favorite part of getting into the infantry was getting out again." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"We often bury our pasts, and then someone comes along and digs them up." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"While the rest of us got paid to serve the Benalish army, the militia didn't. I used to say they stood for freedom—free and dumb." —Gerrard of the Weatherlight
"Helping people is mostly a matter of teaching them to help themselves." —Sisay, journal
"I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities." —Ertai, wizard adept
A Phyrexian "sleeper agent," Xantcha has developed an inviolate sense of self. This aberration earned her a death sentence, but she was rescued by Urza and joined his crusade. Her Phyrexian credo of "Waste not, want not" has helped Urza more than even he comprehends.
An artificer of unparalleled renown, Urza was a powerful cipher even before he was able to planeswalk. Seeing the world as a large, integrated machine is his greatest strength and weakness, enabling him to solve almost any problem but blinding him to his solutions' effects on others.
Voice of the Argoth forest, defender of its creatures, and enforcer of its laws, Titania is literally an aspect of the forest itself. Her power and her very existence are linked to the land: when the forest is healthy, Titania is ascendant. When Argoth suffers, Titania also bleeds.
Tawnos brings a childlike wonder and an inherent skill to Urza's studio and bridges the wizardry of the workshop with the grandeur of the royal court. His speed and flexibility quickly earned him promotion from apprentice to master artificer.
Named for a benevolent goddess at birth, Serra fulfilled the prophecy of that goddess's coming. As a planeswalker, she embodies white mana and helps whole civilizations develop while both directly and indirectly inspiring countless individuals to be steadfast and strong in the service of light.
Both complement and antithesis to his older brother Urza, Mishra also mastered the intricacies of artifice. It was Mishra's strength that first gave rise to the massive Phyrexian war engines on Dominaria, and it was his weakness that pushed him, Urza, and Dominaria itself to the point of annihilation.
Through ruthlessness and raw ambition, Gix rose through the Phyrexian regime to the exalted rank of praetor. Even while overseeing many of Phyrexia's most important undertakings, Gix continues his own quest for supremacy . . . for in Phyrexia, the weak become fodder for the strong.
Ashnod served as Mishra's confidante while he led Fallaji weapons development before the Brothers' War. Whereas Mishra works in metals and stone, however, Ashnod works in living flesh. She sees all living things as prototype machines; her "improvements" to them make her as feared by allies as by enemies.
Takara banishes the shadow of her father's ignoble reputation through the dedication, plain speaking, and swift action of a warrior. By refusing Starke's path of self-interest and opportunism, she has learned what he never will know: the value of sacrifice for a worthy cause.
Though long held captive beneath Volrath's stronghold, the sliver queen is actually freer than most of Rath's denizens. Her maternal instincts always take precedence—even when they conflict with the evincar's agenda—and through her numerous litters, she ranges across all of Rath.
Kondo served as guardian to the infant Gerrard and raised him alongside his own son, Vuel. He taught both boys to be strong and to lead, but whereas Gerrard became a champion of honor, Vuel's bitterness led him to become an equally devastating force of malice.
Gerrard's longtime friend and fellow student under the maro-sorcerer Multani, Rofellos is an excellent warrior and excellent company. Though adept at both magic and swordplay, he's far more comfortable with a flagon in his hand and a good companion at his side.
Known simply by her title, Oracle uses her gift of prophecy to aid her people. She believes Gerrard to be the Korvecdal, the one who will unite the people of Rath against Volrath's tyranny. Her only doubt is whether she will be strong enough to guide him to his destiny.
In mentoring apprentice mages, the forest spirit Multani teaches each to respect nature while making use of its gifts. Multani taught Gerrard, Mirri, and Rofellos to hone their spellcasting in tandem with more physical disciplines so that both would be improved.
One of the few Soltari who can cross the shadow barrier, Lyna serves as an emissary to the outside world. A quick thinker and convincing speaker, she does whatever she can to lead her people out of the shadows and into substance.
Proud, shrewd, and charismatic, Eladamri has a commitment to his people that is absolute. The guerilla war he wages against Volrath has convinced him that the only way to liberate the Skyshroud elves is to lead all Rath's refugees to freedom. So be it.
The son of Gerrard's surrogate father, Sidar Kondo, Volrath stole Gerrard's Legacy and rose to power selling it off piece by piece. Now, he is an evincar, or agent, of the Lord of the Wastes. Armed with exceptional magical powers, he plots to conquer the entire multiverse.
Starke believes in situational ethics—the situation determines the ethics. He's switched sides so often that he has become everyone's ally yet no one's friend. This former merchant of Rath accompanies the Weatherlight crew on their journey to his home world.
Once a guardian of Crovax's estate, Selenia was freed from her magical bindings by the wealthy noble. Instead of remaining at his side, the angel chose to venture out into the world. For reasons unknown to Crovax, Selenia now serves the evil Volrath in his home realm of Rath.
Trained in the Samite arts, Orim serves as the healer aboard the Weatherlight. She is quick with languages and was educated at the same Argivian university as Hanna. A student by nature, Orim keeps a diary of all her new discoveries—both physical and spiritual—during her travels.
Educated in Argive and highly knowledgeable in the field of artifacts, this expert navigator of the Weatherlight believes that scholarship does not necessarily lead to understanding. Her diligence in pursuing both is her greatest asset.
As a ruthless leader for Volrath, Greven il-Vec serves his lord by commanding the flying ship Predator. Greven has attained his powerful rank through a series of underhanded schemes and assassinations, the majority of which were blessed by Volrath himself.
How does one escape a curse? For Crovax, a wealthy noble, the answer may lie in joining the crew of the Weatherlight as they seek to rescue their abducted captain Sisay. Secretly, he hopes in his journeys to find Selenia, the angelic being who abandoned him and his family years ago.
An old and powerful wizard living on the mysterious isle of Tolaria, Barrin is the teacher who trained the young Ertai. He is also Hanna's father, but for reasons known only to the two of them neither acknowledges the other—or their strained relationship.
Tahngarth, first mate of the Weatherlight under Sisay, knows that there are really only two forms of life: the ugly ones and the minotaurs. A narcissist, he considers the condition of his hide as important as the accuracy of his blade.
The smartest—and only—goblin cabin boy aboard the Weatherlight, Squee has learned that intelligence and common sense are very different things. This matters little, however, since he has neither. Fortunately, he doesn't know what he's missing.
While captain of the Weatherlight, Sisay undertook a quest for the Legacy, a collection of artifacts needed to defeat the Lord of the Wastes. She continued this quest even when Gerrard, heir to the Legacy, chose to abandon it. Sisay is devoted to the cause of good at whatever price.
Mirri and Gerrard have been the best of friends since they trained together under the maro-sorcerer Multani. A fierce and agile warrior, she rejoined Gerrard aboard the Weatherlight as his unofficial first mate shortly after he assumed command of the flying ship.
Too chaotic for even the other warlords of Keld, Maraxus has devoted himself to serving as a hired killer for the sinister Volrath. A man fond of his work, he's more than willing to put in those extra hours needed to perfect his craft.
Both part of the Legacy and an individual in his own right, the silver golem Karn is haunted by a single, terrible incident: while serving to protect the young Gerrard, Karn accidentally took the life of another. Wakened from years spent as a statue, the golem has vowed to never kill again as he rejoins Gerrard.
Soldier. Adventurer. Heir to the Legacy. Gerrard has, over the years, traveled much of Dominaria in search of fortune and glory. Now, after serving nobly in the Benalish army, he has returned to the Weatherlight to serve as captain in Sisay's absence and to take up the battle against the Lord of the Wastes.
After serving his apprenticeship under Barrin of Tolaria, Ertai graced the Weatherlight crew with his presence as the ship's "resident" wizard. He realizes that few recognize his greatness—but then how could they, when they lack his insight and wisdom?
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.
Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.
Winter settles on the land, and the land prays it will wake.
Some think that dryads are the dreams of trees.
It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous.
Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life.
No one is happy when they notice a tiger.
It has more teeth than fit in its mouth.
One of the forest's best protectors is the forest itself.
The soldiers chopped and chopped, and still the great tree stood, frowning down at them.
The dogs of war are nothing compared to the cats.
Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf.
Though many have come to this place to wash their wounds, the water has never turned red.
"I am that merry wanderer of the night." —William Shakespeare, A Midsummer Night's Dream
Some cats are born fighters; others need a little persuading.
A rested mind is the sharpest weapon.
The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger.
Don't worry about provoking grizzly bears; they come that way.
They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons.
It's not far into the trap, as the crow flies.
Come to these woods and suffer no pain; you've burdens to lose and new life to gain.
It's up to you if you enter their woods—and up to them if you leave.
Elves know where to harvest the best of the forest, for they planted it themselves.
"Hear that? No? That's a cat warrior."
A rhino rarely uses its horn to announce its charge, only to end it.
Stay alert: his lumbering may shake the ground itself, but in water, he glides.
There are few things as motivating as a swarm of bees.
Something soft bumped against the rowboat, then was gone.
Doom rarely smells this sweet.
The wisest man builds his house behind the rock.
Cast the weight as though it were a die, to see a rival's fate.
I cast a thousand tiny suns— Beware my many dawns.
Lift your spear as you might lift your glass, and toast your enemy.
It pelts the land with its fury, spoiling what was once sweet.
The only thing worse than a minotaur with an axe is an angry minotaur with an axe.
Charging alone takes uncommon daring or uncommon stupidity. Or both.
Mountaineers quickly learn to travel with their spears always pointed up.
Chaos does not choose its enemies.
Only the heroic and the mad follow mountain goat trails.
The herd's patience, the stampede's fury.
Don't let its appearance frighten you. Let its claws and teeth do that.
People ran as never before at the thought of being buried and cremated at the same time.
Swing your axe as a broom, to sweep away the foe.
The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work.
Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way.
Hill giants are mostly just big. Of course, that does count for a lot!
Though slow-witted and slow-moving, they are quick to anger.
It's easy to stand head and shoulders over those with no backbone.
Dry grass is tinder before the spark.
The snake's final thrashings only spread the fire within it.
There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction?
Never doubt a dragon just because of its size.
"The best armor is to keep out of range." —Italian proverb
What burns the land, boils the seas.
Fire never dies alone.
All must fall, and those who stand highest fall hardest.
A touch, not comforting, but of death.
It's not always gold the thief is after.
It would be a shame to let life slip away to nothing.
They watched as the snake shed layer after layer until only cold bone remained.
The less flesh there is, the more teeth there seem to be.
The earth cannot hold that which magic commands.
When emotions rain down, what rivers will be born?
What could it have swallowed to grow so large?
One chill blast—the exhalation of the grave.
The difference between a nuisance and a threat is often merely a matter of numbers.
To dodge the unerring knife, one must be free of thought.
Fear is as effective a weapon as the blade.
I howl my soul to the moon, and the moon howls with me.
Death claims all but the darkest souls.
Death claims all but the darkest souls.
Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness.
A fist of dust to line your throat, a bowl of sand to fill your belly.
"As equal were their souls, so equal was their fate." —John Dryden, "Ode to Mrs. Anne Killigrew"
The more you pay for the lesson, the better you'll remember it.
"I say victory is better than honor."
The fear in their victims' eyes is their most cherished reward.
It moved through the troops leaving no footprints, save on their souls.
Those who live amid decay must expect scavengers.
Don't be fooled by their looks. Think of them as little knives with wings.
Charm and grace may hide a foul heart.
"No bird soars too high, if he soars with his own wings." —William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
Acting on one good idea is better than hoarding all the world's knowledge.
Like the tide, time both ebbs and flows.
"'Twas when the seas were roaring With hollow blasts of wind . . . ." —John Gay, "The What D'Ye Call It"
Seafarers fear sailing off the world's edge not so much as down its gullet.
Energy is never lost, only transformed.
". . . inviting the soul to wander for a spell in abysses of solitude . . . ." —Kate Chopin, The Awakening
Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting.
Do not react; anticipate.
Drakes claim to be dragons—until the dragons show up.
"Life can never be too good."
The phantom warrior comes from nowhere and returns there just as quickly.
Are merfolk humans with fins, or are humans merfolk with feet?
Its spear has no shaft, its shield no handle.
At the sight of the thing the calamari vendor's eyes went wide, but from fear or avarice none could tell.
The past is a mirror of the future.
Once they learn the trick of carrying their own lamps, they never touch the ground again.
Sailors fear the deep-sea serpent; others thank the gods it has no legs.
Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers.
A thousand feathers from a thousand birds, sewn with magic and song.
"As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods. They kill us for their sport." —William Shakespeare, King Lear
It is not the absence of fear that makes a warrior, but its domination.
Sharper than wind, lighter than air.
Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine.
His presence brings not only a strong arm but also renewed hope.
Stand in the way of truth at your peril.
Brute force wins the battles. Conviction wins the wars.
To soar as high as hope, to dive as swift as justice.
Stars are like coins dropped into the night: their light buys safe passage.
When the cat flies and the bird stalks, guard your horses carefully.
Hope is born within.
"For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise." —Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "Kubla Khan"
"No flame, no horror can sway me from my cause."
Dawn brings a new day, and a new day brings hope.
Unicorns don't care if you believe in them any more than you care if they believe in you.
The soldier reaped the profits of peace.
". . . Before honor is humility." —The Bible, Proverbs 15:33
"If it has wings, shoot it. If it doesn't, shoot it anyway."
Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time.
"Hesitation is for the faithless. My belief lends me speed."
Mutual consent is not required for war.
The heart's courage is the soul's guardian.
A true warrior's thoughts are of victory, not death.
"Join the army, see foreign countries!" they'd said.
Let the unjust avert their faces and contemplate their peril.
Asked how it survived a run-in with a bog imp, the pegasus just shook its mane and burped.
"'O miserable of happy! Is this the end Of this new glorious world . . . ?'" —John Milton, Paradise Lost
Some fight for honor and some for gold, but the militia fights for hearth and home.
A peasant can do more by faith than a king by proclamation.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
"When once winter has ahold, Not willingly does she withdraw her icy touch, wistfully caressing— The deepened air sleeps its cold." —Aline Corralurn, "Late Thaw"
Even the most conservative generals revised their tactics after the Battle of Sarinth, during which a handful of peasant-pikemen held off a trio of rampaging craw wurms.
Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being.
Mouths and wings beyond numbering, but a single mind to guide them.
When war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.
"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic
A mirror, a shield, a promise, a great distance, and a kind word—five ways to avoid harm.
"It has been my honor to improve on Thran's original design. Perhaps history will remember me in some small part for my work." —Urza, in his apprenticeship
The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
More than one mage has been driven insane by the sound of the millstone relentlessly grinding away.
When the mighty sleep, the lowly prowl.
"If that thief Joven ever shows his head around here again, make sure he leaves without it." —Eron the Relentless
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.
Whether inspired by fear or by honor, all loyalty lends might.
Recent research suggests these creatures were invented by Urza's and Mishra's original master, Tocasia, and that both brothers used them.
The fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"Without the protection of Feroz's Ban, I fear the Homelands are lost." —Daria
Throw stones, and throw away the world. —Dwarven proverb
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
"How is it the legged engines seem so much more alive than their wheeled counterparts? Simply, they were born, not made." —Mishra
"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning." —Sevti Mukul, The Fall of Alsoor
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
From the Sardian mountains wakes ancient doom: / Warrior born from a rocky womb.
Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
For a dozen years the cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered.
The Brothers' War scarred the land, but Ashnod left her mark in the bloodlines of those she tortured.
Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations.
Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing.
". . . [T]he magician drew a ring off his finger . . . , saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, diary
"Give them great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils." —William Shakespeare, King Henry V
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, King Lear
I didn't think mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
"How terrible to wander wishing only to escape oneself." —Taysir
Sleeping in brambles —Elven phrase meaning "plagued by guilt"
"Weave the magic so that it sings to you, and will always fly home . . . ." —Verduran teaching
"I told him it was just a flesh wound, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's terrible power.
"A good tarpan will serve you, faithful and true. A bad one will kick you in the head." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"When are beasts like a river?" —The One Thousand Questions
"May you decrease like coal upon the hearth . . . Evaporate like water in a pail, Become as little as a linseed-grain . . . And so diminish that you come to nothing." —Anglo-Saxon curse
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
"Stoop, pick, turn, toss. This is the way we mourn our loss." —Scavenger dirge
"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"Crawing, crawing, For my crowse crawing, I lost the best feather i' my wing For my crowse crawing." —Anonymous Scottish ballad
"My sorrow: to dream of simple times, and wake in mine . . . ." —Ola DaRiol, "Regrets"
"A mysterious people indeed. Their origins are as secret as their traditions." —Lord Magnus of Llanowar
"It is in our nature to recognize beauty, but to repeat it—ah, that is another feat altogether." —Hannah of Verdura
"And the seraphs sob at vermin fangs In human gore imbued." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Conqueror Wurm"
"When setting a snare, success depends not on the quality of the trap, but the quality of the bait." —Geyadrone Dihada
One bone broken for every twig snapped underfoot. —Llanowar penalty for trespassing
"Every fallen tree nourishes a thousand seedlings." —Autumn Willow to Baron Sengir
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
After years of training, the druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
"To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter
"'I'll show you how to handle the treefolk!' the giant bragged, and he strode off into the forest. Two days later he returned, his face masked in sap and a nest behind his ear. None dared ask who won." —Azeworai, "The Treeling"
"The raging winds . . . , settling on the sea, the surges sweep, / Raise liquid mountains, and disclose the deep." —Virgil, Aeneid, Book I, trans. Dryden
"All things must eat, after all. Even the air can hunger." —Gemma, Willow priestess
Don't try to outrun one of Dominaria's grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the giant spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
"We were holding our own—until the ogre guiding us suddenly grinned and turned on our commander." —Ivra Jursdotter, Sarpadian mercenary
"Do we know what we're doing? Yes—the will of Freyalise." —Laina of the Elvish Council
Rather than sheltering her young, the female fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
"Only the foolish fear foxfire." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"It blinked, and flower petals fell like tears. Harthar, sensing weakness, attacked—and his blood fell like petals." —Shesul Fass, faerie bard
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm. —Elven proverb
"Did clouds dance in his eyes, did thorns play at his fingertips?" —Shesul Fass, faerie band
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ." —The Bible, Mark 5:13
"Ashes and dust; dust and ashes. Hope it works before it smashes." —Argivian children's rhyme
The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"
Chub toad, chub toad At the door. Run away quick Or you'll run no more. —Traditional children's rhyme
These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.
"Now that's a fashion statement." —Devin, faerie noble
One auroch may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.
"Joskun and the other constables serve with passion, if not with grace." —Devin, faerie noble
"Walls? What walls?" —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"'Tis the set of sails, and not the gales, Which tell us the way to go." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox, "Winds of Fate"
The ground itself lends its strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
"Struggle, and you will only fan the flames." —Talibah, embermage
After years of being bullied, Fergo reaped the benefits of his newfound strength: he never met a man he didn't want to fight.
"The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
While it's true most dragons are cruel, the Shivan dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
While it's true most dragons are cruel, the Shivan dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
"I fear anything with teeth measured in handspans!" —Norin the Wary
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! / Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
It's bigger than it thinks.
There is no natural disaster quite like orcish farming.
There's a chance to win every battle.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
"Folklore has it that to capture a mountain goat is a sign of divine blessing. I just know it's a sign that dinner is on the way." —Klazina Jansdotter, Leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
What if they threw a war, and everybody came?
"The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan.
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, task mage
With the horrible mask, Lagfrak the Low terrorized the countryside. But then he met Il-Chunt, the mask's model . . . .
The minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"Goblins charge with a deafening war cry. The cry doesn't mean anything—it just drowns out the drums!" —Reod Dai, mercenary
To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok . . . .
"When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back!" —Biggum Flodrot, goblin veteran
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
"O! it is excellent / To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous / To use it like a giant." —William Shakespeare, Measure for Measure
The secret of destruction is simple: everything burns.
"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Brimstone marks this drake's territory. Unfortunately for travelers, all of the Burning Isles smell likewise.
Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort.
"There is no shame in solitude. The lone knight may succeed where a hundred founder." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
"Orc must die / Orc must die / Not an orc? / March on by." —Dwarven marching song
"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
Manticores divide all beings into two categories: other manticores and dinner.
"Every field watered in warriors' blood is sacred ground. Lay it not to waste, but claim it for our own—for glory, and for Stromgald!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
Fire is never a gentle master.
"Modern Sarpadia's swarming with thrulls. It's a testament to the orcs that they've survived there so long." —Elbieta, Argivian scholar
"Four things that never meet do here unite To shed my blood and to ravage my heart, A radiant brow and tresses that beguile And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
The bane of all artificers, the legendary atogs devoured intricate tools to further their own twisted growth.
"Fair fight? I'll take survival over chivalry any day!" —Tor Wauki, Bandit King
He controlled the zombies even before his own death; now nothing can make them betray him.
"Good neighbors make good walls." —Jakkarak the Maimer
"For something is amiss or out of place / When mice with wings can wear a human face." —Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
"What was yours is mine. Your land, your people, and now your life." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"It helps pass the time until you die." —Grandmother Sengir
"Until the Rebellion, thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength. —Persian proverb
When the alliance between Balduvia and Kjeldor deprived Stromgald of easy victories, its agents were forced to fuel their rituals with their own flesh.
"We have always counted time with sand; this pinch is your meaningless life." —Nailah, self-proclaimed Queen of Rabiah
"Evil is relative. Do sheep think any better of the shepherd?" —Baron Sengir
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor Spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you . . . ." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
The nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counterinsurgency.
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds.
An end to reason, an end to order. Forget all that has been.
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—but those who go with her are never the same.
"Bind me to thee, my soul to thine. I am your servant and your slave. Blood for blood, flesh for flesh, Leshrac, my lord." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle.
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"They shall drink sorrow's dregs. They shall kill those whom once they loved." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"We are no longer Nature's children, but her masters . . . ." —Oath of the Ebon Hand
"Two legs by day, four legs by night, eyes raging in storm-gotten might." —Ancient Northland riddle
"Turn the key deftly in the oiled wards, And seal the hushed casket of my soul." —John Keats, "To Sleep"
"There are some qualities, some incorporate things, / That have a double life, which thus is made / A type of twin entity which springs / From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
"Angels are simply extensions of truth upon the fabric of life—and there is far more dark than light." —Baron Sengir
The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat.
"The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, they never surrender, and they don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off." —Nevinyrral, Necromancer's Handbook
"The derelor's greatest contribution to the Ebon Hand was the inspirational effect its creator's execution had upon the other thrull breeders." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"Every forest is carpeted with the corpses of a thousand trees." —Baron Sengir to Autumn Willow
"War is no picnic," my father liked to say. But the ants seemed to disagree.
The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave; 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the imp's muck-crusted claws.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"Kings and beggars, they end the same— Surrounded by stench, rot, and blame." —Aline Corralurn, "Legacy"
"Mystic shadow, bending near me, / Who art thou? / Whence come ye?" —Stephen Crane, "Mystic shadow, bending near me"
Although greatly prized among falconers, the zephyr falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.
" . . . When the trees bow down their heads, / The wind is passing by." —Christina Rossetti, "Who Has Seen the Wind?"
When no falcons fly, beware the sky. —Femeref aphorism
"Vodalian rank is displayed by the colors and patterns of their skin. Beware the color red; that is the badge of the empress's favor." —Corbio, pearl diver
"Come one, come all! this rock shall fly From its firm base as soon as I." —Sir Walter Scott, "The Lady of the Lake"
"The Soul selects her own Society— Then—shuts the Door—" —Emily Dickinson, "The Soul selects her own Society"
She had expected death to roar, to thunder, to growl. She did not recognize it when it came hissing to her side.
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?" —The Bible, Job 41:1
"No one can catch what won't be caught." —Kakra, sea troll
"It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
Legend has it that serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.
Relentless as the tides, souls dark as a moonless night. Bloodshed on their minds, and greed burning in their hearts like molten gold.
Occasionally members of the Institute of Arcane Study acquire a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"Oh, I had a conscience once. But alas, I seem to have forgotten where I put it." —Chandler
"'We have no legs,' the warrior spat, 'for we have finished running.'" —Vodalian folktale
"Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come." —Chinese proverb
"I doubt any labyrinth minotaurs still live—but then we minotaurs are stubborn beings." —Onatah, Anaba shaman
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife and former student, Hurkyl.
"As we neared, Belfar proclaimed the wall to be made of glass and went forward to prove it. We had no choice but to pull his hands free from where he had touched it, leaving flesh palmprints on the icy wall." —Tross, Vainus Expedition leader
". . . [A]nd gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name." —William Shakespeare, A Midsummer-Night's Dream
"Unknown spears / Suddenly hurtle before my dream-awakened eyes . . . ." —William Butler Yeats, "The Valley of the Black Pig"
"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield." —Vibekke Ragnild, Witches and War
"Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
"Nothing endures but change." —Heraclitus
Up and down, over and through, back around— the joke's on you.
"Stray not onto the path of darkness, or be lost forever." —Baki, wizard attendant
"Catch good today. Start replacing crew tomorrow." —Faysal al-Mousa, fisher captain, log
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine." —Gustha Ebbasdotter Kjeldoran royal mage
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return." —William Shakespeare, King Richard the Second
"What I want, I take." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage
Little dreamt could seem so cruel As waiting for the wings outspread, The jagged teeth, the burning eyes, And dagger-claws that clench to nerves.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Thunder in the wind / no rain / peace mourns its passing.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
Not all victories require defeat. —Onean idiom
"I regret feeding Kaervek's hunger for power—far better to live with animals innocent of such ambitions." —Jolrael
The strongest walls are made not of stone or steel but of the focused strength of warriors.
"You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a skyknight." —Arna Kennerüd, skyknight
One light, one blade, one purpose. —Vow of the Serra Paladins
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"I too shall be brought low by death, but until then let me win glory." —Homer, Iliad, Book XVIII
"For my confession they burned me with fire / And found that I was for endurance made." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
"As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking-Glass
A shield of light admits no shadow.
A blazing light to drive out the shadows.
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the mesa pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a mesa pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
"The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope." —Gulsen, abbey matron
The heartlink between soldier and steed is hatched with the aesthir struggling from its shell.
Honorable in battle, generous in death. —Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard
"Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples." —Gwendlyn Di Corci
"But who is to guard the guards themselves?" —Juvenal, Satires
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
"In these, our final days, I offer this. Though we could not save Icatia, we gave our children time to grow, and love, before it fell." —Ailis Connaut, diary
Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses.
"Someone once said that hipparions are to warriors what aesthir are to skyknights. Don't believe it." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"All this nonsense made by magesRusts and crumbles through the ages."—Aline Corralurn, "Inheritance"
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.
These tears of pain I weep to the skies, Not bitter drops, but water made divine. Each gem of sorrow slips, no longer mine, But proffered thus to echo other cries.
"The dead may be beyond the law, but speaking the wisdom of the dead will afford no protection!" —Calmont, Aysen bureaucrat
Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse.
"Hang out our banners on the outward walls; / The cry is still, 'They come'; our castle's strength / Will laugh a siege to scorn." —William Shakespeare, Macbeth
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!" —Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician
"Out there, there are spirits, but here, there is wine." —Blessing for the bounty of Kjeld
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the Hero.
"When one's word is law, one's whim is equally binding." —Calmont, Aysen bureaucrat
"Keep your chain mail, warrior. I have my own form of protection." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"Cloak me in mystery, hide my names from my enemies, and let me draw from the well of power." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest
"When you have been bitten with fangs of granite, you start to long for the ivory sabers of tigers." —Norin the Wary
Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity. —D'Avenant proverb
"They don't move, do they?" "Only for the wrong sort of people." "Are we the wrong sort of people?"
Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies.
"Where are falling feathers deadlier than falling rock?" —The One Thousand Questions
You'll never miss what you never had.
The Zhalfirin war triangle represents a trinity of might, faith, and guile.
"Uh, does anyone have a flute?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"With this ring, you have friends in worlds you've never heard of." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
"But once, with a magician's help, Time was stopped and Day stood still." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"I have heard terrible tales of black rains, ashen fields, and metal that screams. I have consoled myself that the tales were a myth of some fevered mind. But today I saw a walker—and now I fear the truth." —Kasib Ibn Naji, Letters
Some potmakers claim to use the mud of such creatures to make their finest bowls—and that the bowls scream when fired.
BOOM!
"If my heart had a lid, I would lift it and show you my joy." —From Suq'Ata wedding ceremony
"This little prize will cover your head, your spells, your bets, and your behind!" —Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
"With no further options, I was forced to don the mask." —Rashida Scalebane
"A pretty toy. Now show me its tactical applications." —Telim'Tor
The Viashivan understand that cruelty arises from opportunity.
"Its speed will be equaled only by the swiftness of my enemy's fall." —Kaervek
With Suleiman's ascension to power, the djinn and efreets of ancient Rabiah learned humility.
"He traded sand for skins, skins for gold, gold for life. In the end, he traded life for sand." —Afari, Tales
"The black-and-white sacred monkey holds her children to her, and waits." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"With Rashida's blades, my guiding vision and the luck of the blessed, today we will free Mangara!" —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"This is a war without neutrality." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Our buried kings silently await the revolt of dead peasants." —Tuwile, mundungu of Aku
"Retainer of eternal Sun! Life flash again upon thy wings." —"Song to the Sun," Femeref song
"If it can scar the sky with fire, do not share its destination." —Mwani, Mtenda herder
"Then she spread a fine dust over the land, like a butterfly shaking its wing." —"The Enchantress," Femeref tale
"Far too many soldiers have died in their beds." —Telim'Tor
"Do not underestimate the power of many against one." —Sidar Jabari
"As the winds abated, there was a shower of dragonscales, then nothing more." —Azeworai, "The Unruly Wind"
"Too much work—it takes a long time to break them in, and more than a few recruits." —Grebog, goblin swine-rider
"Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"Our love is like the river in the summer season of long rains. / For a little while it spilled its banks, flooding the crops in the fields." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Prayers for rain are answered with the thunder of hooves.
"I've dreamt of a second harvest but fear I will not see it." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"But no one heard the snake's gentle hiss for peace over the elephant's trumpeting of war." —Afari, Tales
"Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket." —Liefellen, Quirion exarch
"The land has been gracious enough to let you tread upon her for years. That privilege is about to end." —Liefellen, Quirion exarch
"When you run you're graceful and swift, sleek as a powerful panther." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
. . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life.
"Their tears spill over Jamuraa. Mixed with blood, they wash everything red." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a King Cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend. —Suq'Ata wisdom
Wind will win, whatever we wish.
"'I've seen hornworms big as a man's fist,' the traveler said, and nodded soberly when our jaws went slack at his ignorance." —Afari, Tales
"If a rhino's head is lower than its shoulders, trust me—it is not praying." —Mwani, Mtenda herder
"The elves can hide better than most can look." —Mwani, Mtenda herder
"How have I angered nature that she would imprison me in a labyrinth of grass?" —Kasib ibn Naji, Letters
"Mold could catch you." —Suq'Ata insult
"My horizon was the arcing petals, my new home resplendent with spires of weeds and pillows of fragrant pollen." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Four gray trees and a long, coiling snake. What am I? —Zhalfirin riddle
"Some believe Sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
"Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy?" —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
When the Talruum began to play, the dragons fell from the sky to squash the obnoxious noise.
In the Talruum language, there is no word for "surprised."
"Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side." —Telim'Tor
It prefers its meals cooked.
Purraj sang slaughter and danced death.
"A burst of hot air tossed the moon into the air, and the moon liked it up there so much it never needed the ground again." —Azeworai, "Glitter Moon"
"Good ol' rock. Nothing beats rock." —Rhirhok, goblin archer
"Flog and Squee / Up the tree / See the army / Flee, flee, flee." —Goblin nursery rhyme/war cry
"Every temper tantrum makes another angry gorilla." —Femeref children's myth
"Ate up all of his siblings in the first week. A good beginning for one destined to command." —Suka, ogre matron
"Why is loud stupidity so infectious?" —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
The mightiest clouds sit upon spires of fire. —Femeref adage
Wanted: Thick-skinned goblin for guarding mean ol' Kookus. Must like fires. Must heal quickly.
"Some say a great cyclops turns the world in its hands, looking down upon it with its one bright eye." —Afari, Tales
"May you get the mount you deserve." —Suq'Ata curse
"Next!"
Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills.
Some dwarves can only be pushed so far.
"The blood on my hands is merely proof of my ambition." —Kaervek
"So the vulture said to the griffin, 'You gonna eat that?'" —Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
"I write upon clean white parchment with a sharp quill and the blood of my students, divining their secrets." —Shauku, Endbringer
"My pet will pick the ripe fruit from your tortured brain as if it were hanging from a vine." —Kaervek
"The cyclops shrugged off savage blows, but casual insults made him weep." —Azeworai, "The Cyclops who Couldn't"
"How can you claim the gods are merciless when they robbed the snake of its limbs to give the other creatures a sporting chance?" —Hakim, Loreweaver
"Aku, City of Hidden Graves / Aku, City of Lost Kings / Aku, welcome me." —Pillar tomb inscription
"I have seen the horrors Kaervek has freed. My betrayal is certain—but of Kaervek or of Jamuraa, I cannot say." —Jolrael
"Ah, I remember my first death." —Zarkuu, necrosavant
"The end justifies the means. What do I care if I rule over the dead rather than over the living? The dead ask fewer questions." —Kaervek
"I offered you eternal life; I just didn't say where." —Shauku, Endbringer
In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior.
"Kill a creature, destroy the present. Kill the land, destroy the future." —Kaervek
"Watch death wait / Wait, death, watch / Steal breath swiftly / but steal life slowly." —Suq'Ata dirge
"As you breathe your last, understand why I accept such forbidden gifts." —Purraj of Urborg
"Once I dreamt of death, but now it dreams of me / And only rats and rotting flesh can hear my silent plea." —Mundungu chant
A rhino's bargain —Femeref expression meaning "a situation with no choices"
"It's like waking on a bed of a thousand olives during an earthquake of subtle force." —Afari, Tales
"Kaervek imprisoned Mangara out of jealousy, but he taints Jamuraa simply out of spite." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Your arrogance amazes me, Kaervek. Did you not know the price you would pay?" —Mangara
"Fly us higher, out of its storm." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
"Careless, like a child with fire, so was I with time." —Teferi
"Oft have I wished to undo past deeds, but never did I imagine they would be undone for me." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"Time may heal all wounds, but what heals time?" —Teferi
"Fire is dead. Water has killed him." —From The Stories of Nature
"Kaervek believes the drakes' cries herald his victory; in truth, they mourn aloud for his impending demise." —Teferi
Life or death: which is the illusion?" —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
"A beauty made more so by its fleeting visitations." —Teferi
"Wealth is a good thing, compared to poverty—your food is better, your robes are softer, and your companions have bathed more recently." —Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate
"Magic is my thread, my will the needle. I weave over you as if you never were." —Poetics of Hanan
"Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch." —Naimah, Femeref philosopher
Fear the mists, for they are armed.
"Madness and genius are separated only by degrees of success." —Sidar Jabari
"Controlling time ensures you need never look impulsive again." —Teferi
"Some say the sea is jealous of the land and wishes to climb its heights to meet the sky." —Afari, Tales
First the insult, then the injury.
"You know you've angered the gods when the clouds turn against you." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
For the chronatog, there is no meal like the present.
"He blows a gust across the cliff to vanish in a breath of wind." —"Song of the Wind Being"
"Sometimes a burden can be borne only on the shoulders of a willing enemy." —Suq'Ata aphorism
"War is the crucible of leadership." —Rashida Scalebane
"We are to be bound together as the reeds of a basket." —Asmira, Rashida, and Jabari, unity chant
"They may seem ceremonial, but their swords are still sharp." —Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate
"And darkness shall be cast from me For my soul resides in the Sun." —Femeref dirge
"Good is not a 'thing.' You can neither touch nor own it. No, Good is a vision we all share and strive to make real." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Tread upon the meek, and they shall wound your feet and make you crawl." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"My soldiers fought without hesitation, died without doubt." —Sidar Jabari
"These things will protect you while I'm gone, remind you of my love for you." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Asmira's prayers alone should have freed Mangara from the amber prison . . .
"By the tongues of a thousand serpents, this time I do not lie." —Ahmahz il Kin, Suq'Ata diplomat
There is no wall that can't be improved by making it taller.
"You stop breathing for just a few minutes and everyone jumps to conclusions." —Zarkuu, necrosavant
"If it bears wings, I will pin it to the skies over Tefemburu." —Ruya, Zhalfirin archer
The lion blinked —Femeref expression meaning "situation avoided"
"The true dishonor for a soldier is surviving the war." —Telim'Tor
"Harah swung his sword mightily, but still the air held him fast." —Azeworai, "Kenechi's Dream"
"That does it! I'm going back to hunting chickens!" —Rhirhok, goblin archer
"And the flamingos said, 'Get out of our nest—we can't be seen with the likes of you!' So, the griffin ate them." —Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird"
"My mother once told me angels sing their swords' names with each strike." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, King Lear
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm." —Elven proverb
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ." —Mark 5:13
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his Raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"For something is amiss or out of place When mice with wings can wear a human face." —Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name— But those who go with her are never the same.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity." —D'Avenant proverb
If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a king cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend. —Suq'Ata wisdom
Four gray trees and a long, coiling snake. What am I? —Zhalfirin riddle
"Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
"The blood on my hands is merely proof of my ambition." —Kaervek
"My pet will pick the ripe fruit from your tortured brain as if it were hanging from a vine." —Kaervek
"Ah, I remember my first death." —Zarkuu, necrosavant
"As you breathe your last, understand why I accept such forbidden gifts." —Purraj of Urborg
"By the tongues of a thousand serpents, this time I do not lie." —Ahmahz il Kin, Suq'Ata diplomat
The three wizards knew only that this isle held a great mystery—and that patience alone would solve it.
"People laughed at my darts—once." —Telim'Tor
"Amazing thing, gravity. It seems to work every time." —Telim'Tor
"The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew." —Kaervek
A cage may keep you in, but it does not keep the stones out.
It scattered falcons like a lion hunting among jackals.
"Let him be imprisoned while his possessions wander free." —Suq'Ata legal decree
Held in the lion's eye —Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis"
Slow and heavy swings the club.
"The creature rose from the mountain, its body weeping fire." —Afari, Tales
Few are able to underestimate the hordes.
From jungle to sea, from sea to stone, from stone to field, from field to bone. What am I? —Zhalfirin riddle
"Eternal life or your money back." —Unnamed Suq'Ata merchant, deceased
Pass me from soul to soul / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls. —Totem inscription (translated)
"Once, a wealthy king commissioned an artificial creature to be crafted from the royal treasury, thinking it a clever ploy to have the jewels guard themselves." —Azeworai, "The Golem's Wish"
"Sun follows Moon until she tires, then carries her until she's strong / and runs ahead of him again." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"The protection offered comes at a price. How numerous are your kin?" —Purraj of Urborg
Trade to trade, not to keep. —Suq'Ata motto
"I'll capture gentle zebras / for your steeds and fill the stable with every kind of unicorn." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Watching the windreaper —Zhalfirin phrase meaning "daydreaming"
Even wurms start out small.
"Water is like breathing—necessary for life." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Like Day from Night, / I'll live my life apart from you, just glimpsing you across the sky, / because you cannot change, my dear, and nor can I." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Time is the one shackle you can't break. —Zhalfirin aphorism
"My minions serve me in the light; I serve no one." —Shauku, Endbringer
It's good to know more about your enemy's fate than your enemy does.
"Frozen, we watched the funnel pluck up three of the goats—pook! pook! pook!—before we ran for the wadi." —Travelogue of Najat
In the eastern reaches of Jamuraa are arrangements of massive stones. No one knows their origins—for certain.
"Sorry I burned down your village. Here's some gold."
From you to me, so me to you. —Femeref children's taunt
"Her beauty was the beauty of the Sun at midday, deadly to those who underestimated her strength." —Azeworai, "Kenechi's Dream"
"How ironic that the greatest forge of civilization is battle." —Mangara
Only those who have nothing have nothing to fear.
"Only a gargoyle would take such delight in a thunderstorm." —Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
"You eat plants; I eat plants. You eat beasts; I eat you." —Drulvurg, troll king
"The hazerider danced in the thunderstorm and sang to its music." —Afari, Tales
Like some foul herdbeast, it grazes on the dead.
"Our guardian levies a tax on all traders. Wise travelers pay with a minimum of fuss." —Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
"Hmmm—midnight snack."
Life and death are two faces of the same coin.
The fire breathes while the air burns.
"Life is a resource that should belong only to the strong." —Shauku, Endbringer
"It's filthy work, planting them." —Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage
"In all my years I've only met one mage who successfully trapped a djinn—and none who tried and failed." —Talibah, embermage
"Omens lie in this early harvest's fruit." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"Aselbo soon had the rhino eating from his palm and the snake waiting at his heels." —Afari, Tales
"I will tell my father's stories . . . . How the elephants trampled the leopard cub, and its father, though he knew, killed nine goats instead." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Sometimes the wise ones wove their magic into living plants; as the plant grew, so grew the magic.
The trees have ears, eyes, and teeth.
"Enchant me with your tale-telling. Tell about Tree, Grass, River, and Wind. / Tell why Truth must fight with Falsehood, and why Truth will always win." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"Much can be learned from the bees about dying for a cause." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"To pass through the jungle: silence, courtesy, ferocity, as the occasion demands." —Kamau, "Proper Passage"
Victim of the two-toed faerie —Suq'Ata expression meaning "broken"
"After the storm, I found a sea turtle dying on the sands, a blade of grass driven through its shell." —Travelogue of Najat
"An ancient court mage unified the houses into guilds to serve Zhalfir above their own interests. Even during the civil war, the guilds stood together, a testament to the wisdom of Teferi." —Afari, Tales
In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger.
"If magic is your crutch, cast it aside and learn to walk without it." —Teferi
"I have hidden from the machinations of Zhalfir for centuries. Why should I join your campaign?" —Jolrael
Better to fight the sand for a few hours than to sleep beneath it forever. —Suq'Ata truism
"Death is not a debt I am yet willing to pay." —Purraj of Urborg
"I've never heard growth before." —Gowon, Femeref herder
"The few of us who survived were denied entry to our camp for two days—so like the pox were the marks we bore." —Travelogue of Najat
"The lion drank that lake right up! In thanks, he gave Siti the power to speak with lions and make them leave the goats alone." —Afari, Tales
No two see the same Maro.
Better a fierce thunderhead than a sky filled with locusts.
"Be like the meerkat, my daughters: ever vigilant, true to your own, and wary of strangers." —Nabil Alamat, Suq'Ata merchant
Broad as a baobab—and about as smart.
"What need have I for cavalry when I can have horse and rider both in one?" —Jolrael
Leave no mouth agape, no stomach unfilled. —Granger Guild maxim
Hyenas laughing—what's the joke? —Femeref phrase meaning "that's not funny"
"I hate insects of every sort. The only mercy is that they are generally small." —Mwani, Mtenda goatherd
Five hundred years to grow—barely a minute to eat.
"More armies have been lost in the confusion of the jungle mists than to any battle." —Jolrael
"They say a Zhalfirin archer can split the eye of a griffin. Nonsense, of course: they have no faith to guide their darts." —Nuru, Femeref archer
". . . and when the farmer awoke the next morning, all the seeds from his field were once again in their sacks." —Afari, Tales
"Tonight we'll eat a farewell feast. Cold corn porridge is not enough. / Let's peel papayas, pineapples, and mangoes, drink coconut milk, / and bake bananas." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Thus does nature assert herself.
Love is like a rhino, short-sighted and hasty; if it cannot find a way, it will make a way. —Femeref adage
"In the Mwonvuli you must divide your attention between what hangs overhead and what lies underfoot." —Sidar Jabari
"Defiantly, the young cyclops popped the brushwagg into his mouth. His cheeks suddenly puffed, his eye bulged, and he was forced to agree with his elder." —Afari, Tales
"The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire." —Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat
My thunder comes before the lightning; my lightning comes before the clouds; my rain dries all the land it touches. What am I? —Femeref riddle
Speed and fire are always a deadly combination.
"When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins." —Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert
The mountain's voice shouts us all down.
"Execution awaits the dissenter." —Kasib ibn Naji, Letters
"The curious merely amass knowledge. The ambitious use it." —Telim'Tor
Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift. —Suq'Ata saying
"Air hot with sulfur. / Earth heaves beneath me. / Could it be the mountain / ate something bad?" —Dwarven mining song
"What rainbow could possibly come of this rain?" —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"There are times solid ground gives precious little comfort." —Talibah, embermage
"Blow, fiery wind, / strip illusion from the eye. / Blow, fiery wind of truth." —Femeref chant
When the other soldiers of Zhalfir fall, the askaris will yet stand.
"The Burning Isles are the home to a dozen lords who claim dominion. Jamuraa will look to only one leader: me." —Kaervek
Many mages have been consumed by their work.
"Its burning power is more elusive than shade on the Unyaro Plains, more perilous than the horn of a rhino." —Akin, seasoned askari
When you've been chased by a dragon, you run from every lizard. —Suq'Ata saying
"Inhale. Kill. Exhale."
The pulsing heat of the midday Sun burns in the Lion's eye. —Stone inscription, source unknown
"Never taunt an embermage, 'What are you going to do about it?'" —Akin, seasoned askari
"Can they do that?" —Imwita, Zhalfirin artificer, last words
"I see a great victory and rivers of blood. And . . . hmm, looks like a spleen." —Grishnak, goblin soothsayer
"Pathetic—like I wouldn't know a goblin painted up to look like a dwarf!" —Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
They talk a good fight.
"In the forest, fires light the sky as black clouds unfold their weight." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
Storyteller: By my hand in the fire, this story is a tale of power. Listeners: May it give you strength.
"Magic's only part of it, my friend. Diet does the rest." —Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
Want all, lose all. —Zhalfirin aphorism
A hefty price is no guarantee of quality merchandise.
"Big one I, One big eye. One-eye see Two-eye die!" —Traditional cyclops chant
A dwarf's life belongs as much to the land as to the dwarf. —Creed of the Stonethrow Clan
"Fetch the pestridder, Paka—we've got dwarves in the rutabagas!" —Jamul, Femeref farmer
"Dragonfire forged me a warrior." —Rashida Scalebane
"I dance the nothing dance, / Feet in the air, knives in the ground." —Femeref chant
"Any day that I ride my horse up to my ankles in the remains of my enemies is a good day." —Akin, seasoned askari
Even the lion envies the lark.
There is only so much a person may be buried with.
I live without food, stand without leg, wound without force, and am harder to fight than to kill. What am I? —Femeref riddle
"Tell me . . . have you ever sung the Song of Blood?" —Purraj of Urborg
"The trollish game of push-fall inspired this impressive tactic." —Sidar Jabari
Zhalfir's destiny rings in tempered steel. —Armorer Guild maxim
"Life for life: this is the immutable law." —Panya, Granger Guildmage
"I shall make walls of their flesh, and their blood will be my mortar." —Kaervek
There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness. —Suq'Ata saying
"The flesh is a casket for the soul." —Shauku, Endbringer
"Since I cannot stop death, I choose to stop life." —Kaervek
"They exist only so long as the living take no notice." —Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage
Good help is hard to dig up.
To keep the dead so others may live. —Shadow Guild maxim
You lie down with rats, and the rats run away. —Suq'Ata insult
The rich's heirs often thank them after death . . . but preferably not in person. —Suq'Ata epigram
"I don't know what takes them; they die around me without time to scream." —Scout Ekemet, final journal
Eternal life brings eternal hunger.
"In your final breath you still have something to offer Phyrexia." —Afari, Tales
"It is terrible how one brief action can live forever in memory." —Jolrael
"The finest offering of night is not stealth but daring." —Tetlok, Breathstealer
"We realized the bog had not given up a soul but had come to claim a new one." —Scout Ekemet, final journal
"If the curse does not strike you dead, question your soul." —Kaervek
"But I signed nothing!" —Taraneh, Suq'Ata mage
Embrace the Harbinger —Suq'Ata expression meaning "abandon hope"
"A zombie's bed must be a lumpy one or he wouldn't leave it so often." —Rana, Suq'Ata market fool
"I no longer believe in a final resting place." —Shauku, Endbringer
"Of the six who went down the Uuserek Trail to scout ahead, one returned. She clawed at her eyes and nostrils and sobbed with horror. I was curious about what she saw, but we chose another path." —Scout Ekemet, final journal
"The night stalkers are such a minor power in Urborg. Their sad eagerness to elevate themselves makes them willing tools in the plundering of little Femeref." —Kaervek
"If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it." —Kaervek
Whatever follows life is incurable. —Zhalfirin aphorism
"The foul entities of the Uuserk swamp had never before dared to spread their influence to the very heart of Zhalfir." —Hakim, Loreweaver
"The ceremony ended with a voice from the shadows, a voice with vast, ominous power." —Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage
"Femeref was guided by the wisdom of the Council of Voices. But in one terrible instant, they were slain, leaving Asmira as the sole voice of leadership." —Hakim, Loreweaver
"The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers." —Afari, Tales
King or herder, the maggots care not.
Grieve for the soul in death dishonored. —Shadow Guild saying
"As a child, I slept with a cloth over my face, to hide from the spirits that might pull the air from my lungs." —Mosi, Femeref weaver
"Only fools believe they will face my armies but once." —Kaervek
A crash of rhinos in my head —Femeref expression meaning "a severe head pain"
"The Mwonvuli Jungle has given the darkness teeth for tearing the gift of life from the weak." —Jolrael
"What you call decay, I call ripening. You'll gain no sustenance from this harvest." —Kaervek
Some smiles show cheer; some merely show teeth.
"Consider the wave: how weak the mother yet how strong the child." —Tywanna, Shaper Guildmage
"What is taking them so long to fill the waterskins?" —Mwani, Mtenda goatherd
When mountains ride the sea, waves live upon the fields.
The first of the Thousand Deaths.
Made you look.
"We threw dried fruit to the drakes that rode the air, streaming along the Weatherlight's side as we sailed amidst the clouds." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
"Stepping through time is like riding a camel. It may get you where you want to go, but the ride is rarely pleasant." —Teferi
"Taniwha rolls in its sleep, and the land is awash with the waves." —Poetics of Hanan
"Comfortable even in a furnace? I've never met one who'd accept my wager." —Talibah, embermage
"Would you give up your hands to fly? That is what the birds have done." —The One Thousand Questions
To buy unseen land, pay in unseen coin. —Suq'Ata maxim
Shape this world in Zhalfir's image. —Shaper Guild maxim
"We've run aground sandbars before, but today, a sandbar ran aground us." —Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate
"Can you prepare for the unexpected? No, you cannot. You can prepare only to be surprised." —Teferi
"Heel."
"The memory of your existence will fade like the final stars of morning." —Kaervek
"Ahh! Opposable digits!"
"Politics is a game—move a stone here, move a stone there—except sometimes the stones bleed." —Shauku, Endbringer
"To the tutors, a 'poem of sand' was of little account, a 'poem of ivory,' priceless." —Afari, Tales
"Across the plains, farmers who braved the mists began to vanish. Most blamed the goblins; none guessed the truth." —Hakim, Loreweaver
Centuries ago, Mangara won the loyalty of the Quirion not by ruling their minds but by supporting their independence.
The sea leaves no room for tears. —Zhalfirin adage
"Turn your back for a second and they just vanish! As if they weren't shifty enough before." —Rhirhok, goblin archer
"The caliph was so intelligent he could not remember what he knew." —Azeworai, "Three Riddles"
"Shadimir was as surprised as he was relieved when the blow turned aside." —Afari, Tales
". . . pirates gambled with a djinn and lost the thing more dear than gold." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"There's nothing like a sudden shock to clarify one's thoughts." —Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
"One moment I was walking along the beach, and the next I was high in the air, staring into a hideous smiling face." —Tarub, Suq'Ata sailor
"Quick, Rhirhok—teach me to swim!" —Makht, goblin casualty
"Whoa—my tail will never fit through that hole!"
Not only the sleeping should fear dreams.
Dreams' riches are easily spent. —Suq'Ata adage
"If you weren't born with it, you don't need it." —Grahilah, former trader of Amiqat
In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice.
"Useful . . . if you can find it." —Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
"Once, a Quirion asked why I was so cautious when the day was clear. I told him of the sky-blue hide of the cerluean wyvern, and he offered me double if I could conjure a strong tailwind!" —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
A lie always returns; be careful how you catch it.
"Wear the falcon's feathers in your hair— be fast as the falcon, bright as the Sun." —"Rise on Wings," Zhalfirin song
"A vizier's dish, best served drenched in honey and almonds." —Suq'Ata royal recipe
"Even the ancient storytellers proclaimed Zhalfir to be dominant over all Jamuraa. Kaervek's invasion shocked us all." —Hakim, Loreweaver
"If the griffins tell of their gods, perhaps they speak of feathers bright as the Sun." —Afari, Tales
"You returned a warrior. . . . Your hair was cut, your eye tattooed with the red triangle of war." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground." —Sidar Jabari
Telim'Tor could no longer recall the exact number of assaults—but his troops could.
The griffin's shadow gives courage to the righteous and dread to the idle.
"When we're aloft, I love to lean over the Weatherlight's railing and watch the patterns the griffins' shadows make on the clouds below." —Sisay, Captain of the Weatherlight
"There is no sweeter music than the wails of a dying dragon." —Rashida Scalebane
"A treasure to guard other treasures is worth the highest price." —Mtai, Civic Guildmage
"Prophecy is whatever one makes of it, but destiny cannot be changed." —Sidar Jabari
Light creates shadow; light destroys shadow. Such is the transience of darkness.
"Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves." —"Song to the Sun," Femeref song
"Our soldiers are blessed with lizard scales as hard and cold as steel." —Sidar Jabari
It is not by the blood of dragons that Rashida measures victories, but by the sum of children who no longer wake from nightmares of scales and fire.
"They knew Bantau was lost when, to hide the pearl he had found on the beach, he swallowed it—and soon grew wings." —Hakim, Loreweaver
For the first time in his life, Grakk felt a little warm and fuzzy inside.
Discovered by Femeref mages, the Null Chamber is the ultimate testing ground for the uncreative.
"Proud am I, / strong am I, / courageous in defending my children / and fierce in punishing what stands in my way." —"So the Elephant Speaks," Zhalfirin song
"All animals—even humans—can be herded. The trick is to make them think they choose their own destination." —Mangara
"Unlike Zhalfir, the griffin needs no council to keep harmony among its parts." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
Like a laughing knife, immaculate and sharp, is the Melesse.
"Common soldiers can't understand what a sidar knows: the enemy can be a resource." —Sidar Jabari
"The fury in the lion's eye; the patience in the hippo's yawn; the pride within the griffin's cry are one within the iron tusk's stride." —"Iron Tusk," Femeref song
"A brilliant light can either illuminate or blind. How will you know which until you open your eyes?" —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"The Femeref look only to the Sun for healing; they have never truly understood life's cycle." —Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage
"The days before the war were filled with strange portents: scouts and herders spoke of villages reduced to ash, of farmers taken from their fields, and of foul beasts roaming the plains in packs. I know, for I spoke to them all." —Hakim, Loreweaver
"I will return / with lizard skins for your sandals. Paint your eyes black and wait for me." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
"Faith is my shield, and hope is my armor; I am vulnerable only to myself." —Asmira, Holy Avenger
"If I have learned anything as a wizard it is this: never fight your own battles." —Waffa, sorcerer of Nyomba
"I do not teach. I simply reveal." —Daudi, Femeref tutor
"My goat was a small price to pay for the chance to see the hunting griffin dive and seize it." —Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader
"To the undiscerning eye, justice and vengeance can look the same." —Rashida Scalebane
"Suq'Ata believe in trade; Femeref, alms; Zhalfirins, steel. Be warned, Kaervek—now we are joined." —Sidar Jabari
"There are harsher ways to learn the meaning of the word 'no.'" —Rashida Scalebane
"Mangara is gone. Who among you doubts that I have taken his power?" —Kaervek
To condemn the innocent you must first condemn yourself. —Civic Guild maxim
"My shield will bear a shining sun so you will always be with me. / Inlaid with gold, it will shine like glowing embers." —"Love Song of Night and Day"
The best use for a unicorn's horn is to adorn a unicorn. —Femeref adage
"One timely cry of warning can save nine of surprise." —Sidar Jabari
Facets of life, reflections of the soul.
"The minute I heard my first love story, I started looking for you, not knowing how blind that was. Lovers don't finally meet somewhere. They're in each other all along." — Rumi
Why did the chicken cross the road? To die in the name of science.
... and when you want to go explore, the number you should have is four. —Sandra Boynton
She discovered with great delight that one does not love one's children because they are one's children but because of the friendship formed while raising them. Gabriel Garciá Márquez
It takes great sacrifice to make it to the top.
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, King Lear
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm." —Elven proverb
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ." —Mark 5:13
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his Raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"For something is amiss or out of place When mice with wings can wear a human face." —Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name— But those who go with her are never the same.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity." —D'Avenant proverb
After the terrible retribution visited upon Lat-Nam, this school of mages chose to hide from the eyes of the world.
"Direct confrontation never was to the Orcs' taste." —General Varchild
"Humans and machines working together can be fearsome indeed!" —Arcum Dagsson
"Nothing has ever broken my heart so much as this—the betrayal of Soldev by my beloved machines"Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Dagsson saw the steam as life-giving—until his followers felt its scalding touch." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Our newfound security enables us to turn more of our attentions to the wonders that lie deep within the soil." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"A dreadful invention. What ease is there under the watchful eye of cold steel?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"This ceaseless device has helped uncover marvels unreachable by mere flesh." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Look deep into the Grail, and see there what you desire most." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"My Soldiers know that they need never fear for their protection." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"Knowing its origins, how could they have thought they could control it?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Deal with the spawn of Phyrexia cautiously; only with time may we control them." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"And I say north is where I want it to be!" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
The very ground yielded to Mishra's wishes.
Viscerid dams may be of living creatures as well as bones and mud.
Few remember that Ashnod's defilement of Terisiare's resources outstripped even that of her peers.
"A fine example of the rewards of artifice: a thoroughly obedient steed with wings of Soldevi steel." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Sacrilege A noble ally in life, made nothing more than a glorified kite in death" —Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"Be open to the blessings, whatever their form." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Relent, and you may transcend your situation." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alien place." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"The Ancients teach us that if we can but last, we shall prevail." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"The art of war is turning obstacle to advantage." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"It is the work of sorcery. Burn it!" —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"There is, in each of us, the potential to heal and the gift of renewed life." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Any who drink of Freyalise's bounty drink the mead of rebirth." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
Kaysa speaks as the Elder Druid, but the Yavimaya recognizes only one voice: its own.
"If they can't take the hail, they'd better stay home." —Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"In the soil of leadership sprout the seeds of immortality." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Oh, no—not you again?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Beneath serenity may lie a hidden rage." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"Their fury is their greatest weapon." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Honor those who honor Fyndhorn above themselves." —Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid
"All struggles ultimately require sacrifice. It's just that some sacrifices are dearer than others." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"We are never without guidance, if we but seek it." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"How can any Human hope to match our skills? We are children of Fyndhorn, and its sap runs in our veins." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"No one may fault an Elvish Ranger's heart, but the simplest frailty may fell even the proudest warrior." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"There is no time for pain when this beast leaves its terrible sting." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"Beautiful, indeed—but one sting could fell a Giant in a heartbeat." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Teach by example. If your students do not survive, they were not worth the lesson." —General Varchild
"Good soldiers rely first upon their training, then upon their instincts." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"What tries to crush our spirit only strengthens our resolve." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Every patch of land must belong to Kjeldor, no matter what the cost!" —General Varchild
"We could have peace, but Varchild would rather have the maps of the new Kjeldor drawn in Balduvian blood." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"Embrace the storm. Its voice shall echo within you, and its fire shall become your touch" —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Let the lightning be your warning, and the thunder your battle cry." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Loyalty to coin alone is loyalty nonetheless." —General Varchild
"Anybody want some . . . toast?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Were they to reduce us to ash, we would clog their throats and sting their eyes in payment." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Let Balduvia burn to warm Kjeldor's hearth!" —General Varchild
"Theirs is the art of blood." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"The only 'art' these beasts possess is the art of noise!" —Jaya Ballard
"Each generation teaches the next that artifice is the enemy of natural order." —Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Frankly, destruction is best left to professionals." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Even the basest creatures may serve a purpose. Still, their lives need be only as long as the paths we tread." —General Varchild
"Her soldiers' hatred for the Goblins is tempered only by their need for what the Goblins alone hold: knowledge of their mountain home." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"GOTCHA!" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"We send our best to battle, but every man, woman, and child will stand against Varchild's butchers." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Those mewling Barbarians will cower before my righteous steel!" —General Varchild
"Peace will come only when we have taken Varchild's head." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"The 'fabled' Order of Stromgald is cast to the four winds, lost for all time. I, for one, give them no thought." —General Varchild
"The Order of Stromgald spreads its poisonous lies from within Varchild's troops, and still she sees only visions of conquest." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"My lord, there is only so much I can do. This plague infests Krov worse than any other city." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Disa is dead, and I am left. I shall allow no others to succumb to this pestilence." —Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid
"An idiot cannot hear sense, even when a thousand people speak it." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"People love to follow fools; they don't feel so alone then." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Rumors persist of dark deeds performed in the depths of Soldev. When will Dagsson heed the danger therein?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Dagsson should have paid attention to the lessons of Phyrexia before attempting to create a mechanical utopia." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Phyrexia's touch is painful to all but the blackest of hearts." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"When you cannot rely on your sources, trust your own senses. When you cannot trust those, you must follow your instincts." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Death does not prevent us from service to our absent master. As long as Tresserhorn stands, so shall we." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"The Guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"The fever clouds the mind as it energizes the body. Both will pass in time." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"The burst of strength brought on by this plague should not be mistaken for a sign of renewed health." —Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid
"The living cannot understand the benefits of death." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"We are not yet free of Lim-Dûl's terrors." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"All knowledge has its price." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Only a necromancer would create such a foul form of divination." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Whether whole or not, still we serve Lim-Dûl's wishes." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . .
One Viscerid's death is often another's gain.
A fallen Viscerid's only tribute is to be worn by a comrade.
"Watch for it! Right on its tailfeathers will be a storm from your nightmares." —Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"It tells you that the worst is coming. Do you listen?" —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Our underground archives grow daily, as our excavators and sages alike dig to uncover hidden wonders." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"To hide the truth is more than folly—it is fatal." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"It cannot be Soldev crushed, and my machines to blame?" —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"In the arms of tragedy, there is little comfort in being right." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Lat-Nam has bequeathed us its secrets. With them we shall attain true enlightenment." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Fool Never believe they're dead until you see the body" —General Varchild
"Far too many of our missing 'dead' seem to be turning up in Varchild's ranks" —King Darien of Kjeldor
"Once great literature—now great litter." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
Distant Atlantis charged these Explorers with the task of venturing into unknown waters to track the despised Viscerids.
The rising oceans brought new lakes—and new terrors—to Terisiare. The Explorers found their ancient enemies spawning everywhere.
"I shape my weapons from the fears of my enemies." —Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn
"At the core of all power is raw passion."Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"What Barbarian secrets do they spy from their lofty perch?" —General Varchild
"High in the Karplusans, death is swift and razor-clawed." —Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"Strange alliances are alliances still, and provide the same protection." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"Faith is our greatest protector." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"The benefits of peace far outweigh the pride of Generals." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"It's not so easy anymore. Nothing grows in Kjeldor but seaweed." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Just as an Herbalist heals a wound, so must we heal the rift between Balduvia and Kjeldor." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"Kjeldor's borders are secure, and its citizens are prepared to take up arms in defense of their families." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"The meek shall fight as one, and they shall overcome even the greatest of foes." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Let them send their legions I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords." —General Varchild
"We aided the Balduvians once before. They need but ask and we shall do so again." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"They are fighters as fine as any Knight they carry." —Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"Only an animal born in the wild has sufficient heart to be a true Knight's steed." —King Darien of Kjeldor
"The only true immortality is in dying for a cause." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Martyrs are cheaper than mercenaries, and a far better investment." —General Varchild
"The first caravan has passed safely through the Karplusan Mountains without incident, forging a trade route to Balduvia. Kjeld himself would never have believed it" —King Darien of Kjeldor
"We willingly trade with Kjeldor, but the peace we build must come from both our lands." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"In these troubled times, we alone carry the hope of reconciliation between Elf and Human." —Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate
"More than lessons may be gained from the past." —Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest
"May they speed to their task, for the Skyknights alone cannot hold Kjeldor safe." —Arna Kennerüd, Skycaptain
"Call every able sword to our side. Kjeldor will stand triumphant" —King Darien of Kjeldor
"It's true I ask no fealty of the flocks—but surely we are more than mere beasts." —King Darien of Kjeldor, in a missive to General Varchild
"Birds know no borders! Why, then, should we?" —General Varchild, in a missive to King Darien of Kjeldor
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Hardened by their life in the haunted Llanowar Forest, these fierce beings are outcasts among elvenkind.
"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"…There was no trace Of aught on that illumined face…." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"…There was no trace Of aught on that illumined face…." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
The legacy of Feroz lives on.
"One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear." —Grandmother Sengir
"One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear." —Grandmother Sengir
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge.
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"Although fragile, the Aeolipile could be quite destructive." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"Although fragile, the Aeolipile could be quite destructive." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
Up and down, over and through, back around— the joke's on you.
"Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal." —Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
It's bigger than it thinks.
"Oh, they scream, right enough, and plead, too—but the Baron keeps no mercy in his vault of horrors." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystical runes.
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystical runes.
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, Dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
"The Shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them." —Baron Sengir
Dedicated to the principles of Tourach, members of the Order of the Ebon Hand demonstrated their devotion with grisly rituals.
"There are intriguing similarities between the Order and Icatia's Leitbur religion, suggesting the two had a common origin." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns.
Dedicated to the principles of Tourach, members of the Order of the Ebon Hand demonstrated their devotion with grisly rituals.
"There are intriguing similarities between the Order and Icatia's Leitbur religion, suggesting the two had a common origin." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns.
"No one can catch what won't be caught." —Kakra, Sea Troll
"No one can catch what won't be caught." —Kakra, Sea Troll
Members of the Order often played the Hymn on instruments made from their victims' bones.
Knowing the Hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.
"Tourach's power was such that his followers deified him after his death." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"The eerie, wailing Hymn caused insanity even in hardened warriors." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
Members of the Order often played the Hymn on instruments made from their victims' bones.
Knowing the Hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.
"Tourach's power was such that his followers deified him after his death." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"The eerie, wailing Hymn caused insanity even in hardened warriors." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"Um … oh … what was I saying?" —Reveka, Wizard Savant
"Oh, I had a conscience once. But alas, I seem to have forgotten where I put it." —Chandler
"On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"The people of Aysen feed us, and we don't kill them. That's my kind of truce." —Eron the Relentless
"Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with Orcish and Goblin raiders." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"The powers of the corrupt will fade before the fury of the pure." —Bethan Leitbur, "The Way"
Followers of Tourach regarded all other religions equally: with open contempt. Not so the followers of Leitbur, who made it their mission to eradicate the Order of the Ebon Hand.
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
Icatia's once-peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!" —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!" —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
"I have my faith, and I have my prayers. But if push comes to shove, I've also got a little something extra." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her Gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
The legacy of Feroz lives on.
Treachery and anarchy make poor partners.
Where hope has no champion, evil rules all.
Serra's gift to her people: a symbol of faith and hope.
Folk of good heart will always find a home.
"The Roterothopter is as insidious as it is ingenious. It is one of the few creations of our school that I take no pride in." —Baki, Wizard Attendant
"If that thief Joven ever shows his head around here again, make sure he leaves without it." —Eron the Relentless
"Without the protection of Feroz's Ban, I fear the Homelands are lost." —Daria
"That Rhino would fetch us a tidy sum, Joven. Perhaps it's time to make it ours." —Chandler
"Play the song of he who delivered us. Play the song of Feroz." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"Until I came to the Floating Isle, I never had to oil the servants." —Baki, Wizard Attendant
"One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear." —Grandmother Sengir
"Those of faith are those of strength." —Autumn Willow
"Swift as the wind and harder to catch— that's the Faeries for you." —Daria
"The Autumn Willow cannot be everywhere at once—that's what her grandchildren are for." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"I hear there are Bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Do not fear adversity. Let your courage be your strength." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"The smallest beast can yet have the greatest heart." —Gemma, Willow Priestess
"That which nourishes can also bind." —Gemma, Willow Priestess
"They're not half as fierce if they don't see you coming." —Devin, Faerie Noble
"It's strange, but I can feel it when the land is corrupted. I understand why the Autumn Willow is so protective." —Daria
"I never question the Autumn Willow about her motives, not even when she turns people into Lizards. It's her way." —Devin, Faerie Noble
"If the air must feed, let it take the self-righteous." —Murat, Death Speaker
"All things must eat, after all. Even the air can hunger." —Gemma, Willow Priestess
"There are those who accept being told what to do, what to think, and what to say. Then there are the Folk of An-Havva." —Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"This town's only for good folk. The rest can go to the city." —Joskun, An-Havva Constable
"Faeries talk all in riddles and tricky bits, 'cept the Nobles. Now, there's some straight talkers." —Joskun, An-Havva Constable
"Those who say that Serra is dead have never met the Autumn Willow's daughters. They are as kind and as generous as Serra would wish us to be." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Now, that's a fashion statement." —Devin, Faerie Noble
"The tougher to crack, the sweeter the snack." —Kakra, Sea Troll
"We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains." —Grandmother Sengir
"The Inn was ever a steady source of good cheer and kindness. Greatly do I miss it, now that I am gone." —Ihsan's Shade
"Joskun and the other Constables serve with passion, if not with grace." —Devin, Faerie Noble
"Joven, you're almost as good a thief as I. But Eron hates you even more." —Chandler
"The body is a temple with a foundation of sand." —Autumn Willow
"Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal." —Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"They wouldn't sell their own families—at least, not for cheap." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
"Their definition of 'fair profit' is certainly novel." —Reveka, Wizard Savant
"No dwarf alive can best one of my crew dead." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
"I hear Halina's got a pony that can count to six—and likes to eat meat." —Chandler
"Never brag about the latest wonder you've created, students. Chandler might be listening." —Reveka, Wizard Savant
"The Spirit Crafters sing of all our people. They sing of those lost, of those found, and of those who are yet to be." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"Few master the powers of the earth as well as do the Shamans of the Minotaurs." —Baki, Wizard Attendant
"The Shamans? Ha They are mere craven cows not capable of true magic." —Irini Sengir
"Not someone to pick a fight with, unless you're fond of pain." —Halina, Dwarven Trader
"Not all Minotaurs are tribal. Some are freelance." —Eron the Relentless
"The Ancestors are the wisdom of the tribe and the soul of the Homelands. I am eternally in their debt." —Taysir
"The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them." —Baron Sengir
"The roads to Koskun Keep are mostly safe these days. Mostly." —Joskun, An-Havva Constable
"Call it a cost of doing business. The best way to protect against thieves is to hire better thieves." —Eron the Relentless
"Don't these goons have anything better to do?" —Joskun, An-Havva Constable
"The people of Aysen built their roads with stones from these wonders. Aliban would be pleased with their ingenuity." —Baki, Wizard Attendant
"Those who hide in hollow towers would do well to remember the rain." —Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"Poor, foolish Veldrane. He goes wherever the Baron wills him. One day, he'll go to die." —Halina, Dwarven Trader
"Oh, they scream, right enough, and plead, too—but the Baron keeps no mercy in his vault of horrors." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
"It helps you pass the time until you die." —Grandmother Sengir
"In the face of every one I see the Baron." —Daria
"They are the eyes of the Baron, and they know your fears." —Ihsan's Shade
"A thankless job, and a death sentence besides." —Eron the Relentless
"That cruel being brings shame to all her fellow Dwarves and misery to all the land. She is Sengir's daughter in spirit if not in blood." —Reveka, Wizard Savant
"Ihsan, the weak. Ihsan, the fallen. Ihsan, the betrayer. He has brought shame to the Serra Paladins where none existed before. May his suffering equal his betrayal." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"Your headstone is the last page in the book of your life." —Murat, Death Speaker
"The wolf-things are no mere beasts, but the lieutenants of the Baron." —Taysir
"Rarely have power and madness been so delightfully wed as they have in our dear Grandmother." —Baron Sengir
"This party is such fun—but it's a shame to mourn just one." —Irini Sengir
"Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the Baron knows of one." —Autumn Willow
"Some delicacies are not to be savored, save by the callous." —Baron Sengir
"My soul thirsts for Serra's salvation, as does my body for life's breath." —Ihsan's Shade
"Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer." —Autumn Willow
"Just the place for a picnic." —Murat, Death Speaker
"It keeps some out, yes. It also keeps others in" —Grandmother Sengir
"The Baron's drivers are also driven." —Chandler
"Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain." —Ihsan's Shade
"Ya can eat it or ya can weave it, but ya can't fight in it." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
"I've seen those Trolls devour a drowning sailor faster than his lungs could fill with water." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
"No one can catch what won't be caught." —Kakra, Sea Troll
"It's nice to see a sister Dwarf in a position of such power, but why'd it have to be one of those seafaring muleheads?" —Halina, Dwarven Trader
"Zeki sails with a dead crew not out of villainy, but pragmatism." —Baron Sengir
"Corpses for crew don't sit well with me. Zeki and his dead ship had best keep their distance." —Joskun, An-Havva Constable
"Who needs a spear? Ya break off the horn, and ya stab the fish with it. Easy!" —Kakra, Sea Troll
"Curse Reveka, and curse her coddled conjurers. Their sorcerers' school shall yet be ours." —Irini Sengir
"There's no trade without trust." —Eron, the Relentless
"Oh, I had a conscience once. But alas, I seem to have forgotten where I put it." —Chandler
"Um . . . oh . . . what was I saying?" —Reveka, Wizard Savant
"Legend says they got a treasure cave, but it don't say where to find it." —Zeki, Reef Pirate
"I doubt any Labyrinth Minotaurs still live—but then again, we Minotaurs are stubborn beings." —Onatah, Anaba Shaman
"What wizards upset, the land soon rights." —Gemma, Willow Priestess
"Stray not into the path of darkness, or be lost forever." —Baki, Wizard Attendant
"The path of faith is fortunately fraught with failure." —Irini Sengir
"Here we go again." —Kakra, Sea Troll
"Those who fling spells too quickly should have reason to regret it." —Baki, Wizard Attendant
"I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir." —Daria
"The people of Aysen feed us, and we don't kill them. That's my kind of truce." —Eron the Relentless
"Soraya speaks with the hunters of the air, as do all of her family line." —Autumn Willow
"Would that I could be a Paladin again, but the dead hold no place among their ranks." —Ihsan's Shade
"Serra, like Feroz, is long since dead. But remember, Daria: her spirit shall survive so long as the Homelands do." —Taysir
"The wisest of Aysen dwell not in the Abbey, but in the laboratory." —Taysir
"Powders and potions are nothing compared to faith." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"Rarely be the prey so haughty as to hunt the hunter." —Baron Sengir
"Pretty Falcon, friend to Soraya. Will you send her my greetings?" —Gemma, Willow Priestess
"The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Where our potions and powders fail, perhaps nature will succeed." —Reyhan, Samite Alchemist
"Soon, Serra will return and choose the Abbot's successor, else we are lost." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
"Such innocent little birds. They sing a sweet song, sitting on their fragile branch." —Grandmother Sengir
"The Beast Walkers do a great service to Aysen. As humans or as beasts, their heart is yet to Serra true." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"Tread the roads of righteousness, Murat, lest you lose your way and be consumed." —Baris, Serra Inquisitor
"A renegade rallying the rabble does not a true Crusader make." —Irini Sengir
"All the tortures of my vault of horrors pale in comparison to dealing with those petty Bureaucrats." —Baron Sengir
"I would say that our Bureaucrats are no better than vipers—but I shouldn't insult the vipers." —Murat, Death Speaker
"The Matrons still say Serra is coming back. I bet she never even existed." —Murat, Death Speaker
"The Matrons are kindly souls, but don't ask one for an ale." —Halina, Dwarven Trader
"Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her Gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty." —Gulsen, Abbey Matron
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
The dark opening seemed to breathe the cold, damp air of the dead earth in a steady rhythm.
Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops.
The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
Though it affords excellent protection, few don this armor. The process is uncomfortable and not easily reversed.
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystic runes.
"A blast, an echo . . . then silence."
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them.
A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.
Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias Andrion is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom.
Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon?
Marhault Elsdragon follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart.
"My power is as vast as the plains; my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins." —Dakkon Blackblade, Memoirs
String, weapons, wax, or jewels—it makes no difference. Leave nothing unguarded in Scarwood.
"Many are in high place, and of renown: but mysteries are revealed unto the meek." —Ecclesiasticus 3:19
"Flittering, wheeling, / darting in to strike, and then / gone just as you blink." — "Dragonfly Haiku," poet unknown
Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"
These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.
After the rape of Argoth Forest during the rule of the artificers, the Pixies of Argoth bent their magic to more practical ends.
Like so many obstacles in life, the Wall of Opposition is but an illusion, held fast by the focus and belief of the one who creates it.
At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . . .
The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings.
"I knew it weren't no ordinary pile of—you know." —Norin the Wary
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
Bogardan is a land as volatile as the creatures who live there.
"You know what I was,/ You see what I am: change me, change me!" —Randall Jarrell, The Woman at the Washington Zoo
Magic often masters those who cannot master it.
"When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out/ Contagion to this world." —William Shakespeare, Hamlet
You might leave here, Chenndra, should another take your place . . . .
Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.
Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master.
So confusing is the Wall's appearance that few of its victims even see it move.
"Walls of a castle are made out of stone,/ Walls of a house out of bricks or of wood./ My walls are made out of magic alone,/ Stronger than any that ever have stood." —Chrysoberyl Earthsdaughter, Incantations
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.
Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools.
Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea.
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return." —William Shakespeare, King Richard the Second
The Azure Drake would be more powerful were it not so easily distracted.
"When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers." —Kikuyu proverb
"For my confession they burned me with fire And found that I was for endurance made." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
And then the Archangel Anthius spoke to them, saying, "Fear shall be vanquished by the Sword of Faith."
The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians were created to protect the innocent and faithful.
Theodar strode the battle lines, snatching swords with his bare hands and casting them aside until all cowered before him.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
The willow knows what the storm does not: that the power to endure harm outlives the power to inflict it.
"I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice." —Zur the Enchanter
"It's no Ornithopter, but then I'm no Urza." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"I wouldn't advise using it with a Woolly Mammoth, but it's quite appropriate for many other beasts." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"It's the pokey bits that hurt the most." —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"The fortress is not what it seems." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Unearthly and invisible fibers emanate from this sphere, entangling all who draw near." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"I dispute Relicbane's hysterical allegations, Commissioner, but it is true that these artifacts can be dangerous." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"We found this staff useful on our visit to this very commission. Would Relicbane prefer we had been slain by Lim-Dûl's horrors?" —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
They look human— until they bleed.
Slow and steady wins the race.
"Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"This shield is a true rarity: an artifact whose purpose is obvious." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"These traps are truly a symbol of great cruelty and sinister cunning." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Take this item, for instance. How would it destroy us, Relicbane?" —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"The scavengers who first found it called it the 'Bone Crank.' Not a bad name, I'd say." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"With a bow like this, the hunting is always good." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"We were not meant to have such terrible things. They should be left where we found them, if not destroyed!" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"So great is its power, only the chosen can wield it and live." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"The Goblins would kill to get ahold of this one." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"With the proper equipment and caution, one can travel anywhere." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"With this marvel, even the weak have a fighting chance!" —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"We encountered the Sentinels in the wastes, near no living thing. Their purpose was inscrutable." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit." —Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
"Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Come to us, with your lightning. Come to us, with your thunder. Serve us with your strength, and smite our foes with your power." —Steinar Icefist, Balduvian Shaman
"What can be a stronger shield than concealment? Have you ever defeated an enemy you didn't know existed?" —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"The sea gives up her dead as easily as the soil." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"We shall oppose Lim-Dûl and his forces by any means necessary, even if the very earth be torn asunder." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"The Titans claimed to draw strength from the rocks, but I suspect them of some darker allegiance." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"No one in her right mind would venture off the coast of Kjeldor during this season." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Two of my Warriors found that the creature was dangerous not only in combat, but also in simple proximity." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"There will come soft rains, and spring shall be amongst us, a welcome friend." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Even the highest mountain can be ground to dust." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Walk slowly when in the nether world, and seek that which calls." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Too many of us have died in the explosions that wrack these hills." —Klazina Jansdotter, Leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
Freyalise's tears bring life and renewal, though they also bring trouble.
"The fire of justice burns like nothing else." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty.
"It is the changing of perception that is important." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Centaurs will kill our Aesthir if they can; they've always been enemies. Destroy the horse-people on sight." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"It is our third day of travel on the Yavimaya River, and still these creatures plague us. Davin Lansson, our naturalist, has facetiously labeled them 'gnats,' and the name has stuck." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a Spider without an appetite." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!" —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Here in Fyndhorn, where Freyalise's power is strongest, the forest has its own opinion." —Laina of the Elvish Council
The power of the forest takes a hundred forms. Some are more surprising than others.
"Our Elvish Hunter Taaveti led us swiftly along hidden paths through the dense forest. We caught the Orcs from behind, and completely by surprise." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"A resourceful mage has many sources of information. The best one is your foe." —Zur the Enchanter
"Finally we understand the lesson of our home: loss begets renewal." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"A good Tarpan will serve you, faithful and true. A bad one will kick you in the head." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"We could see the horizon blacken with the great beasts, but it was too late. The icefield offered no immediate safety, but luckily most of us reached a crevasse in which we could take cover." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the Striders' territory.
"Flourishing during the Ice Age, these Wurms were the bane of all Kjeldorans. Their great size and ferocity made them the subject of countless nightmares—they embodied the worst of the Ice Age." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"That which does not bend to the will of Freyalise shall surely break." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"The Dryads told us to stay, as no new horrors would come when it was so cold. Three of us left anyway. The rest believed their lies, and their skeletons weren't found until the thaw." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Faith in Freyalise has given me the gift, not the curse, of unprecedented longevity." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"Never cross a Pyknite, if you value your scalp." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"I don't understand the appeal of keeping these things as pets, unless you want your children eaten." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Daughter, on the day you have killed your Pale Bear, then will I give you your true name." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Fyndhorn is our home." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"It is Freyalise, walking on the world." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Ach! Hans, run! It's the Lhurgoyf!" —Saffi Eriksdotter, last words
"The filthy towns of Kjeldor are no place for anyone to live. Fyndhorn is our home now." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"This was quite possibly the least pleasant occurrence on the entire expedition." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
Warmth is life; heat is peace.
"We learned this at a dear price: once you cross the great river, get through the Yavimaya forest at top speed." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Here in Fyndhorn, the goddess Freyalise is generous to her children." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"I breathed deeply, and suddenly I knew not who or where I was." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"Living side by side with the Elves for so long leaves me with no doubt that we serve the same goddess." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Do we know what we're doing? Yes—the will of Freyalise." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"I've been insulted by drunks in a hundred inns, but never as skillfully or annoyingly as by those blasted Brownies." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"We have joined with the Druids of the Juniper Order. Our faith is one." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"Only the foolish fear Foxfire." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
In ashes are the gems of history.
"Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"Let go your fury, and hone your anger. Become the fist of Freyalise!" —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"I am older than any Elder Druid before me, and still no child has been born with the Mark to take my place. When will the wheel turn?" —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"Even the ground is our friend." —Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order
"It's amazing how scared a city kid can get at a dog. Now, of course, I'd cross Terisiare alone, and keep no watch if I had a pack of greys hanging on my flanks as I went." —Oddveig Ulfsson, caravan scout
Chub Toad, Chub Toad At the door. Run away quick Or you'll run no more. —Traditional children's rhyme
"Ouphes love trinkets and love to take them apart. I only wish they wouldn't do so with the magical ones." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
"They're a hardy bunch, but I'd still bet that they just slept through the worst of the cold times." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
One Auroch may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it.
"Walls? What walls?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Now there's something you don't see every day." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"I saw the wizard gesturing, but I didn't guess his plan until my Aesthir cried out and went into a dive." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"What do you do then? Run. Run very fast. Don't stop until you see the camp—or a bigger Giant." —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"Trust in the power of stone. Stone is strong; stone shatters swords; stone breaks bones. Trust in stone." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"May the forces that took Argoth beneath the waves never come among us again." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Let the past be the past. Do not call up that which you cannot put down. Destroy that which destroyed us, so long ago." —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Daughter, it is now your turn to hunt the Tiger, and make a blanket of its fur." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Leaves more room for the big ones to fight in, you know." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Just the thing for those pesky water mages." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"If you'd been there, you would've run from that deer, too!" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"How did I ever let myself get talked into this project?" —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
Us hungry, need food . . . . Lots of books . . . . Hmm . . . .
"Yes, the Farmers keep our soldiers fed. But why do they have to make every battlefield a pigpen?" —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good." —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"Folklore has it that to capture a Mountain Goat is a sign of divine blessing. I just know it's a sign that dinner is on the way." —Klazina Jansdotter, Leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch
"Eenie, meenie, minie, moe . . . oh, why not all of them?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Who needs the sun when you've got me around?" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"Overkill? This isn't a game of Kick-the-Ouphe!" —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"What's that smell?" —Perena Deepcutter, Dwarven Armorer
"They aren't the brightest or the quickest of Giants. For that matter, the same holds true if you compare them to rocks." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"I can't believe they expect me to fight with this rabble. A Goblin in a big mask sends 'em running for cover." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Before you release a Wolverine from the trap, make sure it's really dead." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"Strength in numbers? Right." —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"AIIIEEEE!" —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
If only it had three brains, too.
"We were chasing Lim-Dûl when the ridge in front of us suddenly crumbled. I can't believe it was mere coincidence." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"I strive for elegance and speed in my work." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
"The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"There is no shame in solitude. The lone Knight may succeed where a hundred founder." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Few of us left, now. Confounded Yeti have opened all the vents. We'd best hide here with the weapons." —Perena Deepcutter, Dwarven Armorer
"Our world has not felt her thundering steps in lifetimes, but Marit Lage's presence is still with us." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Why do we trade with those despicable Elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Let those who bear the brand receive no shelter, no kindness, and no comfort from our people." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
Rattle me bones as I cross the floor And the bones in your grave will rattle no more.
"One day you, too, shall drink the blood of your foes. It is something to look forward to." —Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain
"Barbarian raids were a concern to those living in the northwest provinces, but the Skyknights never dealt with the problem in a systematic way. They thought of the Balduvians as an 'amusing model' of their forebears' culture." —Kjeldor: Ice Civilization
"The pass was completely blocked by the avalanche; we're forced to turn back. Nevertheless, we've gone farther and seen more than any before us." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"The Shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
The star that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
"What was yours is mine. Your land, your people, and now your life." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"This is the fun part!" —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"Virtue has its rewards, as does its opposite." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
Not wind, but the breath of the dead.
"Sheathe your sword, warrior, lest ye fall on it when stricken." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Let them close the gates of Krov from dusk until dawn if they so choose. It matters not. My fiends shall yet rend their flesh from their bones." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"A minion given over to Tevesh Szat is a stronger minion gained." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"A mind in agony is a sparrow without wings." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
An end to reason, an end to order. Forget all that has been.
"The weak shall fall. The strong shall remain." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Join me in the place of power, you risen dead. Join me where the waters weep and the trees have no hearts." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Bind me to thee, my soul to thine. I am your servant and your slave. I shall hunger for your word and thirst for your blessing. Blood for blood, flesh for flesh, Leshrac, my lord." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"I have seen the faces of my dead friends among that grim band, and I can bear no more." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield.
Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle.
"The Elementalists' talents could be useful if turned to other purposes." —Zur the Enchanter
"Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"They shall kill those whom once they loved." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"I thought the day had brought enough horrors for our ragged band, but the night was far worse." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"When the earth shakes, and their animals are swallowed up by the ground, perhaps they will think twice before attacking again." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"The Lemures looked harmless, until they descended on my troops. Within moments, only bones remained." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"From the mouths of my servants, my voice shall emerge to shake the souls of my foes." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"The creature we fought in the western waste was doubly dangerous: mortally wounded, it rebounded and attacked again." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
One foot in the grave, firmly planted.
Remove the guardians to ensure your victory.
"Serve me, and live forever." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"The very earth seemed alive and made a sound like the writhing of the damned." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Even the bravest of warriors yet knows the dark clutch of fright upon his stalwart heart." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Leshrac, my liege, grant me the power I am due." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"Will not the mountains quake and hills melt at the coming of the darkness? Share this vision with your enemies, Lim-Dûl, and they shall wither." —Leshrac, Walker of Night
"My foes serve me twice: in dying, and in death." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"The Shamans of Marit Lage do her bidding in secret, but they do it gladly." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Open the gates, and bid them enter." —Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer
"A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever." —Zur the Enchanter
"We are Kjeldorans no more." —Zur the Enchanter
Dread Marit Lage lies dreaming, not dead.
"It was in Urza's journals that I finally found the secret at the core of the summonings." —Journal, author unknown
"To visit the sky requires bravery, and thought, and little else. To master the sky requires the binding of its masters, and little else." —Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
"The power of flight has but one equal in battle: surprise. Understanding how to use both is the key to victory." —Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
"The Lemures had barely taken wing when the sky roared with thunder. The swarm of little beasts wavered, divided, and fell, crashing to the earth." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"There's more than one way to skin an Ouphe—or thwart a mage." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"Perhaps this time the power of the artificers shall be used wisely." —Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist
"Give me wings to fly and speed to strike. In return, the glory I earn shall be yours." —Steinar Icefist, Balduvian Shaman
"I've seen a larger Erne knock a Giant to the ground and stay airborne. They move not with the wind, but as the wind." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Relax. I'm sure it's just a snake hissing." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Capturing this specimen was not easy. Study it well, that you someday might be as versatile." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Nothing is as it seems." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"What is real can be unreal." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"It was big. Really, really, big. No, bigger than that. It was big!" —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Although my official log will state there is no evidence pointing to the existence of the Mistfolk, my certainty is lessened by the cursed consistency of the expedition's eyewitness accounts." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Magic overused can freeze the mind. Creativity is more important than power." —Zur the Enchanter
"These Sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves." —Zur the Enchanter
"The potential for change lies in all things. Know a thing's nature, know its possibilities, and know it anew." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"Let them see what is not there and feel what does not touch them. When they no longer trust their senses, that is the time to strike." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"The drawing of maps is fruitless in the west near the ice walls; the very earth is formless." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"We could feel the Shaman's power, as surely as we felt the storm." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"This school was founded in secret, operates in secret, and exists for the teaching of secrets. Those who would alter reality must first escape it." —Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen
"Heed the lessons of our time: the forms of water may move the land itself and hold captive the fires within." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"We are farther west than any could have imagined possible, but I still wish to press on. Unfortunately, huge walls of ice block further travel. We can't believe they are natural." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"My mind and spirit are one—a barrier not readily passed." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed.
Abandon not your faith when others abandon you.
"Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
Up and down, over and through, back around— the joke's on you.
"The duel was going badly for me, and Zur thought I was finished. He boasted that he would eat my soul—but all he ate were his words." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"As we followed the ice wall, we had the distinct feeling of being watched. Many of the party wanted to turn back." —Disa the Restless, journal entry
"Get up, blast you! They're attacking! Why are you all so slow?" —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"I reeled from the blow, and then suddenly, I knew exactly what to do. Within moments, victory was mine." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"What I want, I take." —Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage
"The very lands of Balduvia are alive." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"The dreams of a child fulfilled: The wind on my brow, the air 'neath my feet." —Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage
"The folk of the Karplusan Mountains are impossible to ambush." —Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain
"The so-called Barbarians will not respect us for our military might—they will respect us for our honor." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"If you're starving, eat your horses, your dead, or yourself—but never eat your dog." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a Skyknight." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Stand your ground, troops! This shall be our finest hour!" —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox, last words
"These, of all spells, must have common components I can isolate and use." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Shall we turn away a worthy soul because his parents were peasants? I think not." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Blasted amateurs! Doesn't the queen think we can fight well enough on our own?" —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Let us remember brave Jarkeld and his troops, who perished in the Adarkar Wastes so long ago." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"If you do it right, they'll never know what hit them." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Give me a thousand such Warriors and I could change the world." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"My Aesthir is my most trusted ally. We fight as one and live as one, and we will die as one." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"If we do our duty and uphold our honor, Kjeldor shall stand for a thousand years." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
"Honorable in battle, generous in death." —Motto of the Kjeldoran Royal Guard
"There's nothing I like better than watching a street full of soldiers kicking down the doors of the guilty and the impure." —Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald
"Those who do not ride the wind on Aesthir still command loyalty and respect." —Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight
The winged helms of the Guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war.
"Rangers not trained by the Elves just aren't the same." —Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield
"Someone once said that Hipparions are to Warriors what Aesthir are to Skyknights. Don't believe it." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"I have been a warrior for over four hundred years, and yet each generation of Kjeldorans teaches me new tricks. There can be no better allies." —Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter
That which lasts longest serves best.
"The Kjeldorans keep the Orcs at bay and we train their healers. Most human bargains aren't as fair." —Laina of the Elvish Council
"I implore you not to forget the horrors of the past. You would have us start the Brothers' War anew!" —Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic
"Sometimes, a soul is not ready to complete its journey to the next world." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"The Elves train our healers, and we keep the Orcs at bay. Most Elvish bargains aren't as fair." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
Who knows from whence the winter comes?
"Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!" —Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician
"May the bounty of Kjeld enrich your days." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"In the thick of battle, you must keep your wits about you. Yelling a lot helps, too." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"Keep your chainmail, warrior. I have my own form of protection." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"I have my faith, and I have my prayers. But if push comes to shove, I've also got a little something extra." —Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest
"Those Foxes are wily, swift, and ferocious. They are the warriors of the snows." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
"There is no nobler creature in all of Terisiare." —General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
After Kroog was destroyed while most of its defenders were at his side, Urza vowed that none of his allies would ever need to fear for their own defense again, even while laying siege to a city far from their homes.
Even the most conservative generals revised their tactics after the Battle of Sarinth, during which a handful of peasant-pikemen held off a trio of rampaging Craw Wurms.
Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being.
A brainchild of Tawnos, the Triskelion later proved both versatile and useful.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
When war machines became too costly, Tawnos's Weaponry replaced them.
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . . ." —Song of the Artificer
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Recent research suggests these creatures were invented by Urza's and Mishra's original master, Tocasia, and that both brothers used them.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning." —Sevti Mukul, The Fall of Alsoor
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come.
From the Sardian mountains wakes ancient doom: Warrior born from a rocky womb.
Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
This invention shows why Ashnod was feared by her troops as well as her foes.
Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing.
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, King Lear
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs Did send a dismal sheen: Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken— The ice was all between." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
"I told him it was just a flesh wound, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.
"All we had left were their black and bloated bodies." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
Hardened by their life in the haunted Llanowar Forest, these fierce beings are outcasts among elvenkind.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
"The standard cure for leeches requires the application of burning embers. Alternative methods must be devised should an ember of sufficient size prove more harmful than the leech." —Vervamon the Elder
The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm." —Elven proverb
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ." —Mark 5:13
The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion." —Vervamon the Elder
"'Tis the set of sails, and not the gales, Which tells us the way to go." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
An ever-moving swarm of dust engulfs and disorients anything that comes near.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Troll chant
"Union may be strength, but it is mere blind brute strength unless wisely directed." —Samuel Butler
We are many wicks sharing a common tallow; we feed the skies with the ashes of our prey.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me! Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his Raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
"Any scrap of compassion that still existed in my soul was permanently snuffed out when they cast me out into the flames." —Mairsil, called the Pretender
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, preferring to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"O! it is excellent To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous To use it like a giant." —William Shakespeare, Measure for Measure
"Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?" —Plato
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, Manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone.
Fire is never a gentle master.
Four things that never meet do here unite To shed my blood and to ravage my heart, A radiant brow and tresses that beguile And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
"When he reached the entrance of the cavern, he pronounced the words, 'Open, Sesame!'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"That was the worst experience of my days: standing there helpless as they killed my whole troop." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"For something is amiss or out of place When mice with wings can wear a human face." —Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the Royal Assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"
During the dark times, the rats seemed to grow ever stronger.
Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
"Comes right outta th' ground. If ya can smell it, it's too late." —Keevy Bogsbury
Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name— But those who go with her are never the same.
"...There was no trace Of aught on that illumined face...." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires. . . . And there is no greater disaster than greed." —Tao Tê Ching 46
"There are some qualities, some incorporate things, / That have a double life, which thus is made / A type of twin entity which springs / From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
The ritual of plucking out an eye to gain future sight is but a curse that enables the living to see their own deaths.
". . . [S]creams of horror rend th' affrighted skies." —Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock
"War is no picnic," my father liked to say. But the Ants seemed to disagree.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?" —Job 40:25
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Creatures of the Æther are notorious for neglecting their own well-being.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife and former student, Hurkyl.
"That phantom prow split the storm as lightning cast its long shadow on the battlefield below." —Mireille Gaetane, The Valeriad
". . . [A]nd gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name." —William Shakespeare, A Midsummer-Night's Dream
"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield." —Vibekke Ragnild, Witches and War
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the Knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
"Visions of glory, spare my aching sight, Ye unborn ages, crowd not on my soul!" —Thomas Gray, "The Bard"
I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless, flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success." —The Qur'an, 24:52
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
"After Lacjsi's speech, the Knights grew determined to crush their ancient enemies clan by clan." —Tivadar of Thorn, History of the Goblin Wars
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie.
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the Hero.
Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents.
"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity." —D'Avenant proverb
The wizard Greensleeves called a Giant Badger to her aid in an battle with the desert mage Karli.
Loyal and passionate in battle, the Windseeker tribe roams the Green Lands near the Honeyed Sea.
"Yes, I think 'toast' is an appropriate description." —Jaya Ballard, Task Mage
In the feudal days of Icatia, finding the Rainbow Vale was often the goal of Knights' quests.
No sheath shall hold what finds its home in flesh.
At times, survival must outweigh all other considerations.
To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge.
Relics of the Order of the Ebon Hand, the bowl and dagger bespeak the hideous cruelty of its rituals.
Scholars are uncertain whether it was the actual sound or some other magical property of the Elven Lyre that transformed its player.
"There is no gain without sacrifice." —Icatian proverb
"Where is it written that beasts must cause pain?" —Delif, Ponderings
Even the most skilled of modern mages only partially understand the Conch Horn's awesome powers.
"Not all armies enjoyed the services of a medic. For them, Balm of Restoration was that much more valuable." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"Although fragile, the Aeolipile could be quite destructive." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"Scholars still debate whether the Thallids were truly sentient." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
"I don't know which is worse, getting hit with those darts or having to watch them grow back." —Orcish Soldier
"The cooling climate forced the Elves to experiment with new food sources." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"The danger in cultivating massive plants caught the elves by surprise." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
"As the climate worsened, some Thelonites turned to fertilizing with fresh blood in an attempt to keep Havenwood alive and growing." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
"The magic at the heart of all living things can bear awe-inspiring fruit." —Kolevi of Havenwood, Elder Druid
"There were often more Thallids after a battle than before." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
The Elves gathered huge piles of rot to grow fungus. Out of imitation or forethought, the Thallids did the same.
Some said killing the Thallids only encouraged them.
"Thallids could absorb energy from the forest itself. Even Elves were at a disadvantage in fighting them." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
"Born and bred of fungus, Thallids were nearly impossible to kill." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
Although the Elves of Havenwood lived in isolated villages, their swift communications allowed them to act as a single community.
"Even for Elves, they were stealthy little twerps. They'd taken our measure before we'd even seen them." —Marshall Volnikov
Even one whose ears were closely tuned to the sounds of Havenwood could miss hearing a Scout move past.
The Elves never had a standing army; when battle came, they pressed Hunters, Scouts, and Farmers into a surprisingly effective militia.
"As the climate cooled, many Elves turned to Thallid farming for food, while the Hunters honed their skills on what little game remained." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
"Elves often tipped their arrows with a drug that caused a deep but harmless sleep." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
"Burn it down, you say? Now there's a stupid idea. What do you suppose will become of those overhanging branches, hmmm? And then what do you suppose will become of us?" —Ivra Jursdotter
"Thallids are not ordinary enemies of flesh and bone and reason. They attack with no thought for our strength or of their own losses. I fear our Fortresses shall be overwhelmed." —Kyliki of Havenwood
"The size of the obvious Fortress walls often misled foes. Actually, the Elves enchanted the forest itself to provide the first line of defense with tangling vines and stinging thorns." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. III
Many Elven Fortresses weren't built by masons and carpenters, but created from the living forest itself.
It's bigger than it thinks.
Although models of courage for Orcs, the Veterans quickly learned to fear the swift justice of their Icatian enemies.
Unsuccessful in their early battle for Montford, the Orcs quickly tempered their bloodlust with cowardice.
"Orcs often greeted promotions to Icatian battle with anguished wails and pleas for mercy." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
Orcs are not exactly known for their valor—although most Orcs have seen countless battles, only a handful have actually fought in them.
"You idiot! Never let the spies mingle with the Orcish regulars after completing a mission. Now we'll never get them to fight!" —General Khurzog
"Orcish armies often employed the smaller, swifter, and less intelligent Goblins as spies." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"Yeah, they're ugly, they desert in droves, and their personal habits are enough to make you sick. But I'll say this for Orcs: they make great spies." —Ivra Jursdotter
There's a chance to win every battle.
"Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
When creating a new War Drum, Goblin designers sought out the highest quality skulls. Serra Angel skulls were most highly prized, although most acknowledged that the skull of the exotic Sea Serpent made for a richer tone.
The War Drums enabled Goblin and Orcish armies to crush the sparsely defended Dwarven cities.
"Defending the outer trenches, we strained our eyes in the darkness. All we could hear was the Drums' terrible pounding. Dobbs, on my right, broke first. Soon, we were all heading for the walls." —Corporal Peter Douglas, courtmartial testimony
"The Goblins' dreaded War Drums struck terror into the hearts of even their bravest foes." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"Without their massive numbers, the Goblins could never have launched such a successful offensive." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
"I don't suppose we could teach them to throw the cursed things?" —Ivra Jursdotter
"According to accepted theory, the Grenade held some kind of flammable mixture and was carried to its target by a hapless Goblin." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
Exceptionally poor sailors, Goblins usually arrived at their destination retching and in no condition to fight.
"Perhaps Goblins are good for something after all." —Attributed to General Khurzog
"I asked one of my aides how they do it, but all he'd say was, 'Trust me, Mayor, you don't want to know.'" —Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair
The Chirurgeons patched up their fallen comrades with a gruesome mix of twisted limbs and mangled flesh.
"Although the Dwarves staunchly defended their walled city-states against the Orcs, their civilization was the first to fall, and its name was sadly lost." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
There is a legend among present-day Dwarves that the Dwarves of Sarpadia will one day return to defend Dwarvenkind against a deadly peril.
"Let no one say we did not fight until the last . . . ." —Headstone fragment from a mass grave found in the Crimson Peaks
"Dwarven officers were tireless in battle, moving up and down the lines to rally their troops and boost morale." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"Often greatly outnumbered in battle, Dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"The few remaining pieces from this period suggest the Dwarves eventually made weapons and armor out of everything, even children's toys." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"The large brass claws worn by some Sarpadian Orc tribes were among the least feared weapons ever known." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"A whole skin is worth a thousand victories." —Orcish Veteran of the Battle of Montford
"Brassclaws were typical Orcs—quick to laud their own prowess in battle, quick to jeer at their opponents, and quicker still to run away when things started to look slightly dangerous." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"The Brassclaws delighted in lightning raids on Icatian and Dwarven towns; an unprepared enemy is easier to defeat." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV
"In crafting intelligent Thrulls to assist in sacrifices, Sahr inadvertantly set the stage for the Thrull Rebellion." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"Until the Rebellion, Thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"Those idiots should never have bred Thrulls for combat!" —Jherana Rure
Dedicated to the principles of Tourach, members of the Order of the Ebon Hand demonstrated their devotion with grisly rituals.
"There are intriguing similarities between the Order and Icatia's Leitbur religion, suggesting the two had a common origin." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns.
Was it the sight, smell, or aura of the Necrite that killed so effectively?
"Ever see a wall drop dead of fright, kid? It ain't pretty." —Cpl. Dobbs
Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counter-insurgency.
"Many Initiates sacrificed a hand to become full members of the Order." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
Ebon leaders soon realized that non-human races often had special talents that could be exploited.
"We are no longer Nature's children, but her masters . . . ." —Oath of the Ebon Hand
Members of the Order often played the Hymn on instruments made from their victims' bones.
Knowing the Hymn's power, the followers of Leitbur carefully guarded their pillaged transcriptions.
"Tourach's power was such that his followers deified him after his death." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"The eerie, wailing Hymn caused insanity even in hardened warriors." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
"Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result." —From the execution order for Endrek Sahr, Master Breeder
The Thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand.
"Above all, a well crafted Thrull should be hideous—blasted of countenance and twisted of limb—to inspire fear and revulsion." —Endrek Sahr, Master Breeder
"To create the first Thrulls, I only introduced alchemic elements into the Order's necromancy; Tourach's principles remained unchanged." —Endrek Sahr, Master Breeder
Although my later designs were much more sophisticated, Basal Thrulls were no less a success." —Endrek Sahr, "Thrulls"
Initially bred for sacrifice, the Thrulls eventually turned on their masters, the Order of the Ebon Hand, with gruesome results. —Sarpadian Empires, vol. II
Occasionally, an ally balked at wearing a dead Thrull as armor. The priests' whips, however, were usually enough to encourage a more practical outlook.
"Except for a bare spot at the base of their skulls, Armor Thrulls bear interlocking plates and spikes with the strength of steel. Their design is almost artistic." —Endrek Sahr, "Thrulls"
"They gave their lives to strengthen the Order's armies, until they declined this honor in favor of joining the Thrull Rebellion." —Jherana Rure, Counter-Insurgency Commander
"The worst thing about being a mercenary for the Ebon Hand is having to wear a dead Thrull." —Ivra Jursdotter
"The cooling climate introduced a new threat to Vodalia: the Homarids. Once a minor nuisance, they thrived in the changing environment. Their ceaseless attacks strained Vodalia's defenses to their limit, eventually overwhelming the empire." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. V
"Stalwart Soldiers, you stand against the Homarids for Vodalia and for honor. Your homeland cries out for protection, and the moment has come. Now let your valor shine, and sound the cry to battle. Victory to Vodalia" —Marshall Volnikov
"You think you know everything there is to know about battle? You know Orc droppings Underwater combat is three dimensional. Those thrice-damned Vodalians don't attack in ranks; they attack in schools." —Ivra Jursdotter
"Vodalian Soldiers had some unique advantages. Often they would ride into battle on war machines rumored to have come from the far northern oceans." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. V
Vodalian Mages were invaluable in magical combat. Unfortunately, the Homarids raided with strength, numbers, and very little magic.
"Come back, cowards! Everyone knows Merfolk can't wield magic!" —Pashadar Dirf, Goblin Flotilla Commander, last words
"Vodalian Mages are remarkable. Their merchants bring them arcane lore and devices from across the seas." —Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair
Fear the Knight leaping from the water into the air, weapon ready.
"Early Vodalians worshipped Svyelun, goddess of the Pearl Moon. Later she became a more abstract figure." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. V
"Dwelling in icy mountain streams near Goblin and Orcish foes, the River Merfolk were known for their stoicism." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. V
"The ground grew swampy; hooves and claws sank into the marshy earth. Snarls of rage and bleats of despair echoed through the trees as the waters grew higher and higher." —Kyliki of Havenwood, "Havenwood Remembered"
"By the time their enemies noticed the sea's changing mood, the Vodalians had often shifted formation and were ready to attack." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. V
"May Svyelun and her tides favor you." —Traditional Merfolk blessing
"When the very tides turn against you, it's time to consider retirement." —General Khurzog
"Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with Orcish and Goblin raiders." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. I
"The powers of the corrupt will fade before the fury of the pure." —Bethan Leitbur, "The Way"
Followers of Tourach regarded all other religions equally: with open contempt. Not so the followers of Leitbur, who made it their mission to eradicate the Order of the Ebon Hand.
Icatia's once peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from Orcs and Goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps.
Skirmishers engaged raiders before they could reach the towns. Although these units typically suffered huge losses, they never lacked volunteers.
"Scouting is the art of balancing the need to go undiscovered with the need to get all the information you can. It's only by Leitbur's good grace that I'm still alive today." —Ailis Connaut, Diary
"Of course I'm not a spy The enemy has spies. I am a Scout." —Ailis Connaut
"Let it be known that Ailis Connaut acted with honor and bravery in the defense of the town of Montford, risking her life to scout the enemy's position . . . ." —Proclamation granting knighthood
"Because the Orc hordes attacked along the entire border, Scouts were essential to Icatia's defense." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
"May you be strong and valiant, to defeat the enemies of the pure." —"Leitbur's Prayer"
Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the Phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses.
To become an officer, an Icatian Soldier had to pass a series of tests. These evaluated not only fighting and leadership skills, but also integrity, honor, and moral strength.
"Never Surrender" —Motto carved into a fragment of an Icatian wall
"Valiant Icatia was the last of the Sarpadian empires to fall. Its faithful soldiers defended their cities to the very end." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
Although they had long been concerned about the Order of the Ebon Hand, the Icatians faced an even greater threat from Goblin and Orcish raiders.
The Icatian army easily repelled early surprise attacks by the Orcs on border towns like Montford.
"The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true." —Oliver Farrel
Although their methods were often brutal, Farrel's followers believed in the preservation of justice and virtue.
Farrel, a former priest, believed Icatia was far too complacent toward the Order of the Ebon Hand.
Farrel and his followers became a formidable band of vigilantes, battling Icatians and followers of Tourach.
After the fall of Trokair, Farrel and his followers formally broke their ties with the rest of Icatia.
"Time enough to become a Medic once you're hurt too badly to fight. For now, Icatia needs your strength more than your compassion." —Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair
"Without Combat Medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
"We'd no sooner knock 'em back on their heels than that accursed sawbones would show up and patch 'em back together again." —Ivra Jursdotter
"Although Icatia's Combat Medics borrowed much of their knowledge from other societies, their skills were their own." —Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI
The dark opening seemed to breathe the cold, damp air of the dead earth in a steady rhythm.
The Pretender Mairsil ordered a great Calendar drawn up to show when the paths to the Dark Lands were strongest.
Though lifeless, the Skull still possessed a strange power over the flow of magic.
There was more malice in its button eyes than should have been possible in something that had never known life.
Though it affords excellent protection, few don this armor. The process is uncomfortable and not easily reversed.
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
The Fountain had stood in the town square for centuries, but only the pigeons knew its secret.
"What do you have that I cannot obtain?" —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning." —Sevti Mukul, The Fall of Alsoor
"I was struck senseless for a moment, but revived when the strange curiosity I carried fell to the ground, screaming like a dying animal." —Barl, Lord Ith
"Three such creatures stood burning at the crest of the hill. Only seconds later, the Fireball struck our front line." —Lydia, Countess Brellis
After the Battle of Pitdown, Lady Ursnell fashioned the first such instrument out of Lord Ursnell's left leg.
For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars.
Even the Goblins shun this haunted place, where the tree limbs twist in agony and the ground seems to scuttle under your feet.
Larger and more cunning than most Goblins, Scarwood Goblins are thankfully found only in isolated pockets.
Even the other Goblin races shun the Marsh Goblins, thanks to certain unwholesome customs they practice.
If the Whippoorwill remains silent, the soul has not reached its reward.
"I told him it was just a flesh wound, a wee scratch, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
String, weapons, wax, or jewels—it makes no difference. Leave nothing unguarded in Scarwood.
"Purity of magic can only come from purity of the land. How can a meal nourish if the ingredients are spoiled?" —Sidaine of Savaen
"Their rain of arrows left only myself alive, cowering within a tree hollow. They did not even come out to loot the bodies." —Vervamon the Elder
This is his domain, and while you remain here you must value all life as you value your own.
"All we had left were their black and bloated bodies." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"Each night we felt it watching us from the darkness beyond our fire. We only had one pack horse left." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"The standard cure for leeches requires the application of burning embers. Alternative methods must be devised should an ember of sufficient size prove more harmful than the leech." —Vervamon the Elder
"Where moments before we were lost beyond hope, the strange, floating lights showed us the way and restored our morale." —Vervamon the Elder
"They are aberrations who have turned on everything we hold sacred. Let them be cast out." —Ailheen, Speaker of the Council
"It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion." —Vervamon the Elder
We are many wicks sharing a common tallow; we feed the skies with the ashes of our prey.
"Your army must fear you more than the enemy. Only then will you triumph." —Malga Phlegmtooth
"Any scrap of compassion that still existed in my soul was permanently snuffed out when they cast me out into the flames." —Mairsil, called the Pretender
"I knew it weren't no ordinary pile of—you know." —Norin the Wary
They attacked in an orgy of rage and madness, but only one seemed as focused on killing us as on the sheer joy of battle.
"From down here we can make the whole wall collapse!" "Uh, yeah, boss, but how do we get out?"
The stench of countless generations of unspeakable activities was enough to loosen both our footing and our stomachs.
"Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?" —Plato
Fire is never a gentle master.
Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson.
The ground collapsed, leaving nothing but the great Worms' mucous residues.
"That was the worst experience of my days, standing there helpless as they killed my whole troop." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch.
Magic often masters those who cannot master it.
"Aw, he's just a silly, dirty little man. What's to be afraid of?"
When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures.
"Comes right outta th' ground. If ya can smell it, it's too late." —Keevy Bogsbury
Many of those entrusted to Primata Delphine's care tended to express themselves with screams.
"If you don't have your health, you don't have anything." —Proverb
Even the putrid muscles of the dead can provide strength to those loathsome enough to consume them.
Voska feared the artifact had come too easily.
Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger.
On guard for larger dangers, we underestimated the power and speed of the Imp's muck-crusted claws.
Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master.
"All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"That phantom prow split the storm as lightning cast its long shadow on the battlefield below." —Mireille Gaetane, The Valeriad
"A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield." —Vibekke Ragnild, Witches and War
We asked Captain Soll what became of the Serafina, but all he said was, "Ships that go down shouldn't come back up."
"When one has witnessed the unspeakable, 'tis sometimes better to forget." —Vervamon the Elder
"Of twenty yeer of age he was, I gesse. Of his stature he was of even lengthe. And wonderly deliver, and greete of strengthe." —Geoffrey Chaucer, The Canterbury Tales
"As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said." —Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier
"After Lacjsi's speech, the Knights grew determined to crush their ancient enemies clan by clan." —Tivadar of Thorn, History of the Goblin Wars
"Those blessed hands could bring surcease to even the most tainted soul." —Sister Betje, Miracles of the Saints
"It is only fitting that one such as I should die in pursuit of knowledge." —Vervamon the Elder
"With a great cry, the Goblin host broke and ran as the first wave of Knights penetrated its ranks." —Tivadar of Thorn, History of the Goblin Wars
"Bathed in hallowed light, the infidels looked upon the impurities of their souls and despaired." —The Book of Tal
Only after the townsfolk had drawn us into their merry celebration did we discover that their holiday rituals held a deeper purpose.
Though they often bore little greater charm than the demons they battled, exorcists were always welcome in Scarwood.
Tervish never noticed that the amulet had vanished. It had disappeared not only from his possession, but from his memory as well.
"They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me."
The willow knows what the storm does not: that the power to endure harm outlives the power to inflict it.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength.
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..." —Song of the Artificer
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs Did send a dismal sheen: Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken— The ice was all between." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"Work with zeal as hammers peal! Melt, anneal, and pound the steel!" —Old Dwarvish forge-chant
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
The bane of all artificers, the legendary Atogs devoured intricate tools to further their own twisted growth.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you. . ." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife Hurkyl.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless, flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
"Resignedly beneath the sky/The melancholy waters lie./So blend the turrets and shadows there/That all seem pendulous in air,/While from a proud tower in town/Death looks gigantically down." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The City in the Sea"
"Fairest Isle, all isles excelling,/ Seat of pleasures, and of loves . . ." —John Dryden
"This is the forest primeval. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks . . . / Stand like Druids of old." —Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, "Evangeline"
"To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery." —Emily Dickinson
"'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,/ And robes the mountain in its azure hue." —Thomas Campbell, "Pleasures of Hope"
Nireya reached through the Gate, sensing the energies trapped beyond.
"A blast, an echo . . . then silence."
Al-abara simply laughed and lifted one finger, and the carpet carried her high out of our reach.
A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour.
An explorer of the Æther, Tuknir often discovers himself in the most unusual physical realms.
"How can you accuse me of evil? Though these deeds be unsavory, no one will argue: good shall follow from them."
Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom.
Her given name has been lost in the mists of time. Legend says that her silent vigil will one day be ended by the one who, pure of heart and spirit, calls out that name again.
Sunastian has roots in both sorcery and swordplay; he has learned never to depend too heavily on the latter.
Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon?
"Remember Sir Shandlar! Remember and stand firm!" —rallying cry of the Eberyn militia
"Political violence is a perfectly legitimate answer to the persecution handed down by dignitaries of the state."
Ramirez DePietro is a most flamboyant pirate. Be careful not to believe his tall tales, especially when you ask his age.
"On the field of honor, a soldier need have no fear."
We all know the legend: Pavel wanders the realms, helping those in greatest need. But is this a measure of his generosity, or of his obligation to atone?
Marhault follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart.
Livonya's own nature is a matter of mystery. Nothing is known for sure, merely rumors of unearthly stealth, and unholy alliances.
"I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone." —A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca
"When milady was young, the sight of a rainbow would fill her soul with peace. As she grew, she learned to share her rapture with others." —Lady Gabriella
Popular indeed is the tale of how Kasimir was once a Holy man who renounced his order to take up the sword. But this tale is no more likely than any other.
Once, the order of the Closed Fist reached throughout the Kb'Briann Highlands. Now, Jerrard alone remains to uphold their standard.
Mightiest of the Cat Warriors, Jedit Ojanen forsook the forests of his tribe and took service with the Robaran Mercenaries, rising through their ranks to lead them in the battle for Efrava.
"Peace must prevail, even if the wicked must die."
Abandoning his sword to return to the lush forest of Pendelhaven, Jacques le Vert devoted his life to protecting the creatures of his homeland.
"You would never guess, at the terrifying sight of the man, that Hunding was as charming a companion as one could wish for."
Hail from Tolaria the ever changing 'Dane.
Urborg became the final resting place of many swordsmen of renown, their steel outmatched by the wiles of Gwendlyn.
"My power is as vast as the plains, my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins." —Memoirs
Thundering down from Hammerheim, no foe could slow Bartel's charge.
He is devious and cunning, in both appearance and deed. Beware the Warbeard, for this brute bites as well as he barks!
"Battles no longer served a purpose in Karakas." —Angus Mackenzie, Diary
". . . And at his passing, the bodies of the world's great warriors shall rise from their graves and follow him to battle." —The Anvilonian Grimoire
"Give them great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils." —William Shakespeare, King Henry V
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!" —William Shakespeare, King Lear
Fierce winds ripped across the tropical landscape. What they did not destroy with their fiery breath was washed away by torrential rain.
Leave a bowl of milk on your doorstep each night for the brownies, or they'll cause you no end of mischief.
"How dull it is to pause, to make an end,/ To rust unburnished, not to shine in use,/ As though to breathe were life!" —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "Ulysses"
"Many are in high place, and of renown: but mysteries are revealed unto the meek." —Ecclesiastes 3:19
After the battle, an eerie silence gripped the forest. The losers' remains were lightly dusted with green.
The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel.
"Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag, the big black cobra, and he was five feet long from tongue to tail." —Rudyard Kipling, The Jungle Books
"The turtle lives 'twixt plated decks/ Which practically conceal its sex./ I think it clever of the turtle/ In such a fix to be so fertile." —Ogden Nash, "The Turtle"
"Flittering, wheeling, / darting in to strike, and then / gone just as you blink." — "Dragonfly Haiku," poet unknown
"Sometimes it is better to be swift of foot than strong of swordarm." —Elven Proverb
"And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine; and the herd ran violently . . ." —Mark 5:13
Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?"
These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives.
Unpredictable in the extreme, these carnivorous apes will prey even upon their own kind.
"'Tis the set of sails, and not the gales,/ Which tells us the way to go." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox
Like so many obstacles in life, the Wall of Opposition is but an illusion, held fast by the focus and belief of the one who creates it.
At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . .
The ground shuddered violently and the earth seemed to come to life. The elemental force contained in the vast wall of earth was trapped, bent to its controller's will.
An ever-moving swarm of dust engulfs and disorients anything that comes near.
"Union may be strength, but it is mere blind brute strength unless wisely directed." —Samuel Butler
"Striking silent as a dream,/ Cutting short the strangled scream . . ." —Tobrian, "Watchdragon"
"Sometimes the bulls win, and sometimes the bears win. But the bulls have more fun." —Anonymous
"O Great Captain, all is lost. They tunneled, they burrowed, they trenched. They sapped the strength of our defenses." —Sorgus, Chronicles of the Quarum Plains
"Hi! ni! ya! Behold the man of flint, that's me!/ Four lightnings zigzag from me, strike and return." —Navajo war chant
The thick, moving mass from the beginning of evolution swallows and digests the animate and inanimate as it unthinkingly strives to continue its existence.
The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings.
Kher Keep is unique among fortresses: impervious to aerial assault but defenseless from the ground.
The Taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common Kobold.
"One for all, all for one; we strike first, and then you're done!" —Oath of the Kobold Musketeers
"Joining this army is easy, boy. Just survive your first battle."
"The smith a mighty man is he/ With large and sinewy hands./ And the muscles of his brawny arms/ Are strong as iron bands." —Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, The Village Blacksmith
On the morning of the Battle of Gal-Shan, the Sorcerer's cry rang out: "Let no bird fly, let no creature take wing, let all the battle join as one."
"O! it is excellent/ To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous/ To use it like a giant." —William Shakespeare, Measure for Measure
The Frost Giants have been out in the cold a long, long time, but they have their rage to keep them warm.
"The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,/ Her ashes new-create another heir/ As great in admiration as herself." —William Shakespeare, King Henry the Eighth.
Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort.
The Crookshank military boasts a standing army of nearly twenty-four million, give or take twenty-two million.
Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, Crimson Manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone.
"Kobolds are harmless." —Bearand the Bold, epitaph
Bogardan is a land as volatile as the creatures who live there.
Ærathi children who show promise are left to survive for a year in the wilderness. Those who return are shown the way of the Berserker.
The Walking Dead are the remains of freakish experiments by the Necromantic Lords.
"For something is amiss or out of place/ When mice with wings can wear a human face." —Theodore Roethke, "The Bat"
"In the drowsy dark cave of the mind dreams build their nest with fragments dropped from day's caravan." —Rabindranath Tagore
"You know what I was,/ You see what I am: change me, change me!" —Randall
"Black spirits and white, red spirits and gray,/ Mingle, mingle, mingle, you that mingle may." —Thomas Middleton, The Witch
"An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss." —Ernest Renan, Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse
"Her lips suck forth; see, where it flies!" —Christopher Marlowe, The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus
"'Tis now the very witching time of night,/ When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out/ Contagion to this world." —William Shakespeare, Hamlet
Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain.
These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana.
She walks in the twilight, her steps make no sound,/ Her feet leave no tracks on the dew-covered ground./ Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—/ But those who go with her are never the same.
"Today, for a lark, let's visit the plains. I'm sure we'll find something to entertain us."
"And a horror of outer darkness after,/ And dust returneth to dust again." —Adam Lindsay Gordon, The Swimmer
"High on a throne of royal state . . . insatiate to pursue vain war with heav'n." —John Milton, Paradise Lost
You might leave here, Chenndra, should another take your place . . . .
The brightness of day turned in an instant to dusk as the swarm descended upon the battlefield.
". . . The ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head . . . he sometimes passes along the Hollow, like a midnight blast . . ." —Washington Irving, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires./ There is no greater guilt than discontentment./ And there is no greater disaster than greed." —Tao Tê Ching 46
"He knows he has a short span of life, that the day will come when he must pass through the wall of oblivion . . ." —William Faulkner
The voices of the dead ring in the heart long after they have faded from the ears.
"The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat."
"If I must die, I will encounter darkness as a bride,/ And hug it in my arms." —William Shakespeare, Measure for Measure
The ritual of plucking out an eye to gain future sight is but a curse that enables the living to see their own deaths.
"Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes,/ And screams of horror rend th' affrighted skies." —Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock
"'War is no picnic,' my father liked to say. But the Ants seemed to disagree." —General Chanek Valteroth
Although greatly prized among falconers, the Zephyr Falcon is capricious and not easily tamed.
So confusing is the Wall's appearance that few of its victims even see it move.
"Walls of a castle are made out of stone,/ Walls of a house out of bricks or of wood./ My walls are made out of magic alone,/ Stronger than any that ever have stood." —Chrysoberyl Earthsdaughter, Incantations
"Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook/ or run a line round his tongue?" —Job 40:25
Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then fell lifeless to the ground.
Creatures of the Æther are notorious for neglecting their own well-being.
". . . and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left." —Exodus, 14:22
". . . [A]nd gives to airy nothing/ A local habitation and a name." —William Shakespeare, A Midsummer-Night's Dream
Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools.
"She grinned at me—a wicked grin. 'I hope you weren't relying too heavily on that, my dear.'" —Medryn Silverwand, Diary
Some people say that the world is round, and if you travel far enough you'll come to the other side, where everything is upside down.
"Adopt the character of the twisting octopus, which takes on the appearance of the nearby rock. Now follow in this direction, now turn a different hue." —Theognis, Elegies 1, 215
"Full fathom five thy father lies;/ Of his bones are coral made;/ Those are pearls that were his eyes;/ Nothing of him that doth fade,/ But doth suffer a sea-change/ Into something rich and strange." —William Shakespeare, The Tempest
"O! call back yesterday, bid time return." —William Shakespeare, King Richard the Second
The Azure Drake would be more powerful were it not so easily distracted.
As many attackers were dazzled by the wall's beauty as were halted by its force.
"Ow! Ow ow ow! Oooh, ow, OW!"
"Visions of glory, spare my aching sight,/ Ye unborn ages, crowd not on my soul!" —Thomas Gray, The Bard
I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains.
"It was full of fire and smoke and light and . . . it drove between us and the Efrafans like a thousand thunderstorms with lightning." —Richard Adams, Watership Down
Few can withstand the wrath of the righteous.
What walks on four legs in the morning, two legs in the afternoon, and three legs in the evening?
A sign of battle, the Vultures circle and wait for the victorious to depart.
The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen.
"Foolish wizard! As you tap the power of your lofty keep, so grows my strength." —Malvern Xelionos, Letters
And then the Archangel Anthius spoke to them, saying, "Fear shall be vanquished by the Sword of Faith."
The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians, were created to protect the innocent and faithful. Some say their actions are above the law.
Theodar strode the battle lines, snatching swords with his bare hands and casting them aside until all cowered before him.
"The day of spirits; my soul's clam retreat/ Which none disturb!" —Henry Vaughan, "Silex Scintillans"
Any wall can be battered down, but at what cost?
Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie.
Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine.
D'Haren stared at the twisted lump of metal that had been a prized artifact. The fight was getting ugly.
The clouds broke and the sun's rays burst forth; each foul beast in its turn faltered, and was gone.
Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents.
"Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity." —D'Avenant proverb
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength.
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..." —Song of the Artificer
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs Did send a dismal sheen: Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken— The ice was all between." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
"Work with zeal as hammers peal! Melt, anneal, and pound the steel!" —Old Dwarvish forge-chant
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
The bane of all artificers, the legendary Atogs devoured intricate tools to further their own twisted growth.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you. . ." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
This spell, like many attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife Hurkyl.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless, flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Urza always put Tocasia's lessons on resource-gathering to effective use.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Artifact construction required immense resources.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Mines became common as cities during the days of the artificers.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominia itself a casualty of war.
Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal.
After Kroog was destroyed while most of its defenders were at his side, Urza vowed that none of his allies would ever need to fear for their own defense again, even while laying siege to a city far from their homes.
During the brothers' childhood, Tocasia took them to explore the sacred cave of Koilos. There, in the Hall of Tagsin, Mishra discovered the mysterious weakstone.
Even the most conservative generals revised their tactics after the Battle of Sarinth, during which a handful of peasant-pikemen held off a trio of rampaging Craw Wurms.
When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water.
Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being.
A brainchild of Tawnos, the Triskelion proved its versatility and usefulness in many of the later battles between the brothers.
Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the Rack was once his most feared creation.
When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.
When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them.
Originally considered the work of Urza, this tablet was created by forgers seeking to imitate Urza's masterpieces.
Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the Su-Chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students.
Though Mishra was impressed by the staves Ashnod had created for Zegon's defense, he understood they only hinted at her full potential.
Born like a Phoenix from the Flame, But neither Bulk nor Shape the same. —Jonathan Swift, "Vanbrug's House"
What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength.
Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops.
Many scholars believe that these creatures were the result of Urza's first attempt at mechanical life, perhaps created in his early days as an apprentice to Tocasia.
An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning.
The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements.
More than one mage was driven insane by the sound of the Millstone relentlessly grinding away.
While exploring the sacred cave of Koilos with his brother Mishra and their master Tocasia, Urza fell behind in the Hall of Tagsin, where he discovered the remarkable Mightstone.
This timeworn relic was responsible for many of Urza's victories, though he never fully comprehended its mystical runes.
Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge.
For years scholars debated whether these were Urza's or Mishra's creations. Recent research suggests they were invented by the brothers' original master, Tocasia, and that both used these devices.
From their earliest educations, the brothers had known that no human contrivance could stand against the true masters of Dominia.
Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier.
Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines.
Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come.
From the Sardian mountains wakes ancient doom: Warrior born from a rocky womb.
Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master.
Tawnos learned quickly from Urza that utter simplicity often led to wondrous, yet subtle utility.
By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls.
Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them.
This horrid invention clearly illustrates why Mishra's lieutenant was feared as much by her troops as by her foes.
Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing, greatly adding to the city's glory.
The Forest of Argoth has developed a resistance to mechanical intrusion.
After the destruction of Argoth, Gaea was willing to instill a portion of her own powers into some of her more vengeful followers.
The spirits of Argoth grant new life to those who repent the folly of enslaving their labors to devices.
Driven mad by the fall of Argoth, the Citanul Druids found peace only in battle.
Haunting cries we hear in our dreams As the forest dies, a death from machines.
After the rape of Argoth Forest during the rule of the artificers, the Pixies of Argoth bent their magic to more practical ends.
Chains of leaping fire and sizzling lightning laid waste the artificers' handiwork, sparing not a single device.
The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the Artifact Blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created.
These devices lured so many spirits that sometimes entire battlefields would become haunted at once.
"The warm rain of grease on my face immediately made it clear I had entered Phyrexia." —Jarsyl, Diary
Any black mage could coax a Thraxodemon to inhabit a magical device.
Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts.
This spell, attributed to Drafna, was actually the work of his wife Hurkyl.
Drafna, founder of the College of Lat-Nam, could create a working model from even the smallest remnants of a newly unearthed artifact.
Eventually, mages learned to harness the power of natural damping fields and use it for their own ends.
Through years of study and training, the Blacksmiths of Argive became adept at reassembling the mangled remains of the strange, mechanical creatures abounding in their native land.
Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, the Archaeologist searches incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era.
These small but intelligent Dragons and their Olesian allies held back the tide of Pashalik Mons's hordes of Goblin Raiders. DragonCon 1994
The Isle of Wak-Wak, home to a tribe of winged folk, is named for a peculiar fruit that grows there. The fruit looks like a woman's head, and when ripe speaks the word "Wak."
Each day of their journey, Jandor opened the saddlebags and found them full of mutton, quinces, cheese, date rolls, wine, and all manner of delicious and satisfying foods.
Bobbing merrily from opponent to opponent, the scimitar began adding playful little flourishes to its strokes; it even turned a couple of somersaults.
"After these words the magician drew a ring off his finger, and put it on one of Aladdin's, saying: 'It is a talisman against all evil, so long as you obey me.'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, Diary
"When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?" —Maimun al-Wyluli, Diary
Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way.
"Four things that never meet do here unite To shed my blood and to ravage my heart, A radiant brow and tresses that beguile And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
"Four things that never meet do here unite To shed my blood and to ravage my heart, A radiant brow and tresses that beguile And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
"When he reached the entrance of the cavern, he pronounced the words, 'Open, Sesame!'" —The Arabian Nights, Junior Classics trans.
Sometimes those with the most sin cast the first stones.
Sometimes those with the most sin cast the first stones.
"Expect my visit when the darkness comes. The night I think is best for hiding all." —Ouallada
Saffiyah clapped her hands and twenty flying men appeared at her side, each well trained in the art of combat.
Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea.
Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea.
"When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers." —Kikuyu Proverb
"When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers." —Kikuyu Proverb
"For my confession they burned me with fire And found that I was for endurance made." —The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy
"Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success." —The Qur'an, 24:52
"Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success." —The Qur'an, 24:52
Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations.
Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations.
"We made tempestuous winds obedient to Solomon . . . And many of the devils We also made obedient to him." —The Qur'an, 21:81
Everyone knew Walid was a pious man, for he had been blessed with many sons, many jewels, and a great many Camels.
On the day of victory no one is tired. —Arab proverb
On the day of victory no one is tired. —Arab proverb
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ." —Song of the Artificer
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ." —Song of the Artificer
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..." —Song of the Artificer
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..." —Song of the Artificer
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
"The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone..." —Song of the Artificer
Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage.
We had taken refuge in a small cave, thinking the entrance was too narrow for it to follow. To our horror, its gigantic head smashed into the mountainside, ripping itself a new entrance.
"Some of the other guys dared me to touch it, but I knew it weren't no ordinary hunk o' rock." —Norin the Wary
I didn't think Mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters.
Everybody knows that to ward off trouble, you knock on wood. But usually it's better to make a wall out of the wood and let trouble do the knocking.
"And through the drifts the snowy cliffs/ Did send a dismal sheen:/ Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—/ The ice was all between."/—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
"What else, when chaos draws all forces inward to shape a single leaf." —Conrad Aiken
Some say magic was first practiced by women, who have always felt strong ties to the land.
Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey.
Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the Basilisk's power.
Moving without sound, swift figures pass through branches and undergrowth completely unhindered. One with the trees around them, the Dryads of Shanodin Forest are seen only when they wish to be.
The only sound was the gentle clicking of the Faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the Scryb were very funny anymore.
Whenever the Llanowar Elves gather the fruits of their forest, they leave one plant of each type untouched, considering that nature's portion.
After years of training, the Druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed.
The mating habits of Treefolk, particularly the stalwart Ironroot Treefolk, are truly absurd. Molasses comes to mind. It's amazing the species can survive at all given such protracted periods of mate selection, conjugation, and gestation.
Don't try to outrun one of Dominia's Grizzlies; it'll catch you, knock you down, and eat you. Of course, you could run up a tree. In that case you'll get a nice view before it knocks the tree down and eats you.
While it possesses potent venom, the Giant Spider often chooses not to paralyze its victims. Perhaps the creature enjoys the gentle rocking motion caused by its captives' struggles to escape its web.
Rather than sheltering her young, the female Fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth.
I tell you, there was so many arrows flying about you couldn't hardly see the sun. So I says to young Angus, "Well, at least now we're fighting in the shade!"
The most terrifying thing about the Craw Wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once.
The Earth herself lends her strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land.
Conjured from the bowels of hell, the fiery wall forms an impassable barrier, searing the soul of any creature attempting to pass through its terrible bursts of flame.
"Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear." —Traditional
None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia.
What goes up, must come down.
While it's true most Dragons are cruel, the Shivan Dragon seems to take particular glee in the misery of others, often tormenting its victims much like a cat plays with a mouse before delivering the final blow.
The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was.
We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror.
In a rare display of ingenuity, the Orcs invented an incredibly destructive weapon. Most Orcish artillerists are those who dared criticize its effectiveness.
The intricate dynamics of Rundvelt Goblin affairs are often confused with anarchy. The chaos, however, is the chaos of a thundercloud, and direction will sporadically and violently appear. Pashalik Mons and his raiders are the thunderhead that leads in the storm.
Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. To say that Orcs in general are vicious, depraved, and ignoble does not do justice to the Ironclaw.
The Minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds.
Fortunately, Hill Giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet.
The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, and preferred to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings.
"While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, Gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them." —The Underworld Cookbook, by Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar
To become king of the Goblins, one must assassinate the previous king. Thus, only the most foolish seek positions of leadership.
"From up here we can drop rocks and arrows and more rocks!" "Uh, yeah boss, but how do we get down?"
"And topples round the dreary west A looming bastion fringed with fire." —Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "In Memoriam"
Fire Elementals are ruthless infernos, annihilating and consuming their foes in a frenzied holocaust. Crackling and blazing, they sear swift, terrible paths, leaving the land charred and scorched in their wake.
Earth Elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures.
Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble.
"O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon"
They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him.
"About, about in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white." —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
The Wall of Bone is said to be an aspect of the Great Wall in Hel, where the bones of all sinners wait for Ragnarok, when Hela will call them forth for the final battle.
"They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose,/ Nor spake, nor moved their eyes;/ It had been strange, even in a dream,/ To have seen those dead men rise."/ —Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
Trained in the arts of stealth, the royal assassins choose their victims carefully, relying on timing and precision rather than brute force.
"Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation"
The Nightmare arises from its lair in the swamps. As the poisoned land spreads, so does the Nightmare's rage and terrifying strength.
"...There was no trace/ Of aught on that illumined face..." —Samuel Coleridge, "Phantom"
"There are some qualities—some incorporate things,/ That have a double life, which thus is made/ A type of twin entity which springs/ From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade." —Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence"
Bones scattered around us joined to form misshapen bodies. We struck at them repeatedly—they fell, but soon formed again, with the same mocking look on their faceless skulls.
Created to destroy Dominia, Demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose.
'Twas in the bogs of Cannelbrae My mate did meet an early grave 'Twas nothing left for us to save In the peat-filled bogs of Cannelbrae.
Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight.
Unpredictable as the sea itself, Water Elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms.
A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path.
"This 'standing windstorm' can hold us off indefinitely? Ridiculous!" Saying nothing, she put a pinch of salt on the table. With a bang she clapped her hands, and the salt disappeared, blown away.
Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be?
Occasionally a member of the Institute of Arcane Study acquires a taste for worldly pleasures. Seldom do they have trouble finding employment.
"While, like a ghastly rapid river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh—but smile no more." —Edgar Allan Poe, "The Haunted Palace"
These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies.
Most human scholars believe that Merfolk are the survivors of sunken Atlantis, humans adapted to the water. Merfolk, however, believe that humans sprang forth from Merfolk who adapted themselves in order to explore their last frontier.
Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti Djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection.
A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them.
These spirits of the air are winsome and wild, and cannot be truly contained. Only marginally intelligent, they often substitute whimsy for strategy, delighting in mischief and mayhem.
Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste.
Just as the evil ones approached to slay Justina, she cast a great spell, imbuing her weapons with her own life force. Thus she fulfilled the prophecy: "In the death of your savior will you find salvation."
Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long.
Born with wings of light and a sword of faith, this heavenly incarnation embodies both fury and purity.
The traditional kings of the jungle command a healthy respect in other climates as well. Relying mainly on their stealth and speed, Savannah Lions can take a victim by surprise, even in the endless flat plains of their homeland.
Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others.
"'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'" —Lewis Carroll
"Look to the north; there you will find aid and comfort." —The Book of Tal
Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the Mesa Pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a Mesa Pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune.
Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero.
